She gives the DUCHESS a box on the ear
Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls,
So you grant pasture for me.
But that your royal pleasure must be done,
But so it must be, if the king miscarry.
to scratch. I must to the barber's, monsieur, for
As I am truly given to understand,
And it appears he is beloved of those
My nightingale,
Answer every man directly.
I do.
Lord, have mercy upon me! I shall never be able to
Enrings the barky fingers of the elm.
Bishop of Exeter, his brother there,
Do you know me, sir? am I Dromio? am I your man?
But direct villany. Therefore, be abhorr'd
Give me your hand.
And have my learning from some true reports,
Mine is, an't please your grace, against John
ever know beloved?
Now, tell me, how do all from whence you came?
This is my king, York, I do not mistake,
Might go one way, and safely, and the end
O treacherous villains!
You know, my lord, your highness is betroth'd
escapes not
Farewell, sweet masters both, I must be gone.
deceived even your very eyes: what your wisdoms
But let me hear from you.
Of those that claim their offices this day
We'll burn the house of Brutus.
Exit
And shortly mean to touch our northern shore:
Leave nothing out for length, and make us think
Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud,
And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms:
Uncouple in the western valley, let them go:
I have, my lord.
That he seems rapt withal: to me you speak not.
But few of any sort, and none of name.
Clamour'd the livelong night: some say, the earth
In such gross kind?
You must needs have them with a codpiece, madam.
Yea, so familiar!
With patches, colours, and with forms being fetch'd
I cannot love her, nor will strive to do't.
O, no, my dream was lengthen'd after life,
What, is Horatio there?
For though her father be the King of Naples,
Are less than horrible imaginings:
Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me,
Therefore 'tis meet Achilles meet not Hector.
Why, so it would have done at the same season, if
Before you, Lepidus.
To men in joy, but grief makes one hour ten.
We have a maid in Mytilene, I durst wager,
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
No, to the dignity and height of honour
Wherefore you are not paid.
Enter KENT
A very riband in the cap of youth,
Are now on sale, and at our sheepcote now,
Bequeathed down from many ancestors,
Who, in the lusty stealth of nature, take
Why, sir, a carpenter.
An honest poor servant of yours.
Troilus! why, he esteems her no more than I esteem
A right description of our sport, my lord.
Within my age. But reason with the fellow,
And therefore do they cry, though you forbid,
Visit both prince and people: therefore, I prithee,
Welcome, my good friends!
ACT I
Envelope you, good Provost! Who call'd here of late?
What is become of Bushy? where is Green?
And ban thine enemies, both mine and thine!
There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
with an ordinary fool that has no more brain
favouring the first complaint, hasty and tinder-like
Before the belching whale, then is he yonder,
let me borrow my arms again.
Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp,
That they pass by me as the idle wind,
And duly waited for my coming forth?
I with the morning's love have oft made sport,
The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.
'Tis York that hath more reason for his death.
The purple testament of bleeding war,
That many mazed considerings did throng
That did affright the air at Agincourt?
Sport! of what colour?
Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home.
As being thought to contradict your liking,
guest-cavaleire?
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any
That I may call thee something more than man
Fling up his cap, and say 'God save his majesty!'
And I thus humble ever.
Enter the Mayor of Saint Alban's and his  brethren, bearing SIMPCOX, between two in a chair, SIMPCOX's Wife following
We must not. A noble prisoner!
What is his name.
But, Othello, speak:
Throws up a skull
Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here:
I pray thee, let us go and find him out
Interprets for my poor ignorance.
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
And in the morning early will we both
More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable:
O my lord,
Gracious Lavinia, Rome's rich ornament,
Thy valour and thy heart, thou art a traitor,
Here's the smell of the blood still: all the
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
By your good favour, too sharp, men so noble,
Unless thou let his silver water keep
That ever yet this land was guilty of.
What is't that you took up so gingerly?
Didst thou behold Octavia?
fleas like a loach.
It is my soul that calls upon my name:
[Aside]  For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout:
Proclaim our honours, lords, with trump and drum.
For treason is but trusted like the fox,
I would not be a queen.
May honourable peace attend thy throne!
Since that the truest issue of thy throne
despise one that is false, or as I despise one that
To honour me as thy king and sovereign,
Name them, my lord, let's know them.
Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.
But you will take exceptions to my boon.
Aloof from the entire point. Will you have her?
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
Moved with compassion of my country's wreck,
And of the heat of the ginger. It is a beast for
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
What's his brother, the other Captain Dumain?
No, he is best endued in the small.
Nor this I have not, brother, so denied,
keep counsel, they'll tell all.
Never lacks power to dismiss itself.
Whiles they behold a greater than themselves,
The different plague of each calamity.
Will the king come, that I may breathe my last
And the exchange my brother! Here, in the sands,
Doth by the idle comments that it makes
Strikes his breast hard, and anon he casts
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
Her valiant courage and undaunted spirit,
Exeunt TROILUS, AENEAS, and ULYSSES
And threat the glory of my precious crown.
To eke it and to draw it out in length,
when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won
Why, she hath given you a letter.
As motion and long-during action tires
But wilt thou not speak all thou knowest?
If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
I am in my condition
How more unfortunate than all living women
It is not for your health thus to commit
For truth, for duty, and for loyalty.
Is crept into the bosom of the sea,
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
Were feverous and did tremble.
For charity itself fulfills the law,
All my abilities in thy behalf.
Your highness with herself.
state totters.
How I am braved and must perforce endure it!
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
any, speak, for him have I offended. Who is here so
and had my pocket picked: this house is turned
Enter PUBLIUS and others
And then betwixt me and my married wife.
in Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmoreland, I
Of Blithild, which was daughter to King Clothair,
Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
That should be silent: if young Doricles
Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
Cobweb.
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Marry, sir, I carried Mistress Silvia the dog you bade me.
Sirrah, leave us to ourselves: we must confer.
I shall do't, my lord.
the truth of his words, but they do no more adhere
Or horse or oxen from the leopard,
That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke
By her I claim the kingdom: she was heir
Were he more angry at it.
How some have been deposed, some slain in war,
Was a most sainted king: the queen that bore thee,
Nay, I assure you, a peace concluded.
And so let's leave her to her silent walks.
is he inconstant, sir, in his favours?
that he hath devoted and given up himself to the
I pray she may, as well for the encouragement of the
in truth, la. Nay, I care not for such words, no,
her succor, which were the hope o' the Strand, where
sounder all the next day.
Now powers from home and discontents at home
What is your genitive case plural, William?
And make fair weather in your blustering land.
Heaven knows, not I,
To find you out.
and as mine honesty puts it to utterance.
Welcome. Set down your venerable burthen,
Lo, where he comes!
Which else were shame, that then necessity
What would you more? Pompey, good night. Good brother,
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
Do so, my friends. See them well entertain'd.
Evermore showering? In one little body
What's this? a sleeve? 'tis like a demi-cannon:
Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting-Gentlewoman
We need no more of your advice: the matter,
And raze their faction and their family,
How shall we then dispense with that contract,
Praised!
A statue than a breather.
In every county as we go along.
My lord and sovereign, and thy vowed friend,
tongue speaks.
Even for revenge mock my destruction!
With all swift speed you must away to France.
Must I speak now?
If I should pay you for't as 'tis extoll'd,
Ay, by and by,
Were well deserved of rashness.
Gloucester's eye!
No, madam.
Of a despised life closed in my breast
Yea, get the better of them. What's to do?
I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke.
And thither I will send you Matthew Goffe,
But from her handmaid do return this answer:
Exeunt
If so, I have derision medicinable,
None, but to
shall rob those men that we have already waylaid:
And keep it from the earth.
he's much out of health, and keeps his chamber.
That cannot be:
the next turning.
And you whose places are the nearest, know
Set on towards London, cousin, is it so?
little more to say, sir, of his honesty: he has
No other speaker of my living actions,
The virtuous lady, Countess of Auvergne,
I shall return before your lordship thence.
Well then the peace,
Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me!
Sir, you are music's master.
Is term'd the civil'st place of this isle:
Though Marcius earned them not, and all his faults
I hope, sir, three times thrice, sir,--
Offered by a child to an old man, which is wit-old.
Exit Servant with PETER
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
It is: and yours too, Isidore?
Through the house give gathering light,
By Bushy, Bagot and their complices,
By making many. O, it grieves my soul,
Ha! what, so rank? Ah ha!
He hath been search'd among the dead and living,
Why, thy verse swells with stuff so fine and smooth
Then how can it be said I am alone,
To bind our loves up in a holy band,
Some of the chiefest princes of the Goths,
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath
That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous,
The people in the street cry Romeo,
SCENE II. France. A royal palace.
But if that I am I, then well I know
Now I behold thy lively body so?
Sir, you shall present before her the Nine Worthies.
shall have no more eyes to see withal than a cat.
But fear the main intendment of the Scot,
Ay, Caesar, but not gone.
I am my master's true-confirmed love,
Why have I patience to endure all this?
Let him depart before we need his help.
How did this offer seem received, my lord?
So musical a discord, such sweet thunder.
And should she thus be stol'n away from you,
Which steals itself, when there's no mercy left.
Follow his strides, his lobbies fill with tendance,
He would not flatter Neptune for his trident,
Either expound now, or receive your sentence.
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub,
A strange tongue makes my cause more strange,
SCENE II. Friar Laurence's cell.
Up, sir, go with me,
Without me? they cannot.
Thou shouldest strike him.
Cromwell, I did not think to shed a tear
The thing which is flatter'd, but a spark,
'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye.
Ay, marry,
And so doth mine: I muse why she's at liberty.
To call upon his own, and humbly prays you
Which I have better'd rather than decreased:
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
Why, we are still handling our ewes, and their
your purses full of crowns, if you will not, tarry
Now where's the Bastard's braves, and Charles his gleeks?
If you did, I care not.
For he hath witness of his servant's malice:
God knows I will not do it, to the death.
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
To angle for your thoughts: but you are wise,
That should but rive an oak. Why dost not speak?
Nay, godded me, indeed. Their latest refuge
Will do's commission throughly: and I think
SCENE I. An apartment in the DUKE'S palace.
Noble Sebastian,
The lazy yawning drone. I this infer,
And say it is the queen and her allies
Have you a working pulse? and are no fairy?
Natures of such deep trust we shall much need,
Him and his innocent child: for which foul deed
Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart,
What should I say? he was too good to be
Exeunt all but the First Gentleman
They do it but in mocking merriment,
rather praised for this than mocked, for it is as
[Aside to COSTARD]  They have been at a great feast
Wound it with sighing, girl, kill it with groans,
The more it grows and fawneth on her still.
Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
fortunes! O joy, e'en made away ere 't can be born!
And breathe twice and cry 'so, so,'
Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts
Do not betray me, sir. I fear you love Mistress Page.
Although assail'd with fortune fierce and keen,
With commendation from great potentates,
This is my father's choice.
He was in the right, and so indeed it is.
Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot?
What, are men mad? Hath nature given them eyes
Dolphin my boy, my boy, sessa! let him trot by.
Go, go, up to the leads, the lord mayor knocks.
For this, consorted with the citizens,
He's worth more sorrow,
Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
And shall do so ever, though I took him at 's
So, trouble me no more, but get you gone.
Ay, my lord.
By good Saint Alban, who said, 'Simpcox, come,
Hence, old goat!
Vex not his ghost: O, let him pass! he hates him much
marvellous infection to the little page, and truly
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad:--
O, sir, she makes no doubt of that.
Enter TYBALT
Let thy song be love: this love will undo us all.
And make my wars on you: look to't: come on,
HELENUS passes
It is.
motley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in
Strike, as thou didst at Caesar, for, I know,
In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame,
Excellent, it hangs like flax on a distaff, and I
I tell thee, Catesby--
Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace.
Both who he is and why he cometh hither
Not possible, for who shall bear your part,
And think upon my bidding.
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
there live we as merry as the day is long.
And, noble uncle, I beseech your grace
list of my voyage.
What is the matter?
If I in act, consent, or sin of thought,
O miserable thought! and more unlikely
His little speaking shows his love but small.
As little is the wisdom, where the flight
'be opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants,
What angel shall
Have given myself the cause.
Ba, most silly sheep with a horn. You hear his learning.
My honours to you, upon his good returns.
your servant.
Have fill'd their pockets full of pebble stones
DON
notwithstanding that, I know Anne's mind,--that's
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
But breeds the giver a return exceeding
For nought but provender, and when he's old, cashier'd:
To mourn a mischief that is past and gone
That nature's fragile vessel doth sustain
miracle. I am eight times thrust through the
As both of you--God pardon it!--have done,
looked sadly, it was for want of money: and now you
He shall appear in proof.
And bid him speak of patience,
My reason all the same, and they are ready
it anon with new contents swear.
Madam, I have been bold to trouble you,
Had all your quarters been as safely kept
If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I'ld have thee beaten
a lute-string and now governed by stops.
They'll pawn their swords for my enfranchisement.
To draw my answer from thy articles?
Nor what I have done by water.
[Within]  If thou attempt it, it will cost thee dear:
The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman,
most vilely in the afternoon, when he is drunk: when
And will they undertake to do me good?
My lord, I do not know,
He hath honour'd me of late, and I have bought
is't with you? What, man! defy the devil:
It may be death.
Here's one to a very doleful tune, how a usurer's
Give me my boots, I say.
I, that I was
This bawd, this broker, this all-changing word,
they ne'er come but I look to be washed. Master, I
Our children and our sins lay on the king!
she's a witch, forbade her my house and hath
But here comes Antony.
Is this well spoken?
sent to the deputy.
I know no pain they can inflict upon him
Pardon, my lord, I will not show my face
But by your setting on, by your consent?
In her unholy service. Patience, then,
But his neat cookery! he cut our roots
These letters give, Iago, to the pilot,
One whom the music of his own vain tongue
Thou liest, thou canst not.
Cry lost, and so good night!
Even he.
Exit
Might I but know thee by thy household badge.
The augurer tells me we shall have news to-night.
Let us alone to guard Corioli:
Who calls?
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth,
What is her name?
For emulation hath a thousand sons
bed, and dream on the event. Farewell.
O pity! Sir, where is the patience now,
Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight:
Under the tide: but now I breathe again
Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb
Wherein he might the king his lord advertise
Shapes faults that are not--that your wisdom yet,
earwax: and the goodly transformation of Jupiter
Ay, forsooth, to desire her to--
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
March. Enter WARWICK, MONTAGUE, and their army
False king! why hast thou broken faith with me,
If it be honour in your wars to seem
As 'twere my daughter's eyes: and, to be plain.
A plague of all cowards, still say I.
It should be better he became her guest,
What is granted them?
these injuries the king now bears will be revenged
O heavens themselves!
hath tamed my old master and my new mistress and
So fly I from her that would be my wife.
This reprobate till he were well inclined,
wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance be by
Were jocund, and supposed their state was sure,
To do what? to do what? let her say
me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. I
SCENE II. The Earl of Gloucester's castle.
The appetite may sicken, and so die.
Or that I could forget what I have been,
And if I die to-morrow, this is hers,
If you do censure me by what you were,
What cannot you and I perform upon
And rise created princely Duke of York.
Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.
Twice being  [by the people chosen]  censor,
Ay, with a heart as willing
That thou wilt use the wars as thy redress
Throw this report on their incensed rage,
And shall I now give o'er the yielded set?
Now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke,
What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested thee
What's the matter?
I grant him bloody,
Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies:
So that we fled, the king unto the queen,
But may not be so credulous of cure,
As well as one so great and so forlorn
What, urge you your petitions in the street?
Exit Gentlewoman
If I myself, there is no hour so fit
Or with light skirmishes enfeebled.
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
They play
Sir, pardon me in what I have to say:
The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
Would they work in mild aspect!
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
Exit BASTARD OF ORLEANS
testament, with that I will go buy my fortunes.
Beat at this gate, that let thy folly in,
for missing your meetings and appointments.
He is then a giant to an ape, but then is an ape a
I am Achilles.
the--No, I know it begins with some other
Upon my soul, two reverend cardinal virtues,
tear a cat in, to make all split.
The king my father gave you such a ring.
Even by your own.
yield them,
ACT IV
Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas,
Nay, but you part in anger.
No less! nay, bigger, women grow by men.
Follow, and do me service.
You with your children will he send before:
Should reign among professors of one faith.
I do, my lord, but long I shall not stay
To put on yellow stockings and to frown
Prithee, no more: thou dost talk nothing to me.
Conceiving the dishonour of his mother,
Not in love neither? Then let us say you are sad,
Exit
I had forgot, three months, you told me so.
Madam, what should I do?
A glooming peace this morning with it brings,
the most sufficient of your parish.
Puff'd his own brother:--and can he be angry?
A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
All take hands.
See thyself, devil!
ye're so slight. He that hath a will to die by
This petty brabble will undo us all.
Lucilius' Servant	                  Welcome, good brother.
And I do haunt thee in the battle thus
Sweats in the eye of Phoebus and all night
Take all, and wean it, it may prove an ox.
Sir,--
Why, look you, how you storm!
There is the man of my soul's hate, Aufidius,
More fierce and more inexorable far
A combless cock, so Kate will be my hen.
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
But dare maintain the party of the truth,
He after honour hunts, I after love:
Hark Tamora, the empress of my soul,
Enter IACHIMO
Thou art too like the spirit of Banquo: down!
To push against a kingdom, with his help
Uncharitably with me have you dealt,
Hand in hand, with fairy grace,
But, as a brother to his sister, show'd
Why, that contempt will kill the speaker's heart,
What are you there? Your names?
O, if thou wert the noblest of thy strain,
The riches of the ship is come on shore!
My ventures are not in one bottom trusted,
Worse than tears drown: beseech you all, my lords,
Ten thousand years together, naked, fasting,
Read to her sons than she hath read to thee
By day and night to attend him carefully,
When I perceive your grace, like power divine,
If thou wilt not, befall what may befall,
What wilt thou do, thou peevish officer?
On May-day morning, which will never be:
A proper title of a peace, and purchased
remember him now, a bawd, a cutpurse.
You fools! I and my fellows
That I must die here and live hence by truth?
Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes,
SCENE IX. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
mystery, you would sound me from my lowest note to
An you part so, mistress, I would I might never
And Silvia is myself: banish'd from her
Nay, come, tell Iras hers.
My liberty.
And would have armour here out of the Tower,
Did broach this business to your highness, or
And make my image but an alehouse sign.
As when the golden sun salutes the morn,
And will not use a woman lawlessly.
Give signal to the fight, and to it, lords!
I know not where he lodges, and for me to devise a
You find him like a soldier: do not take
To cureless ruin. I stand here for law.
Have strain'd to appear thus: if one jot beyond
Why linger we? let us lay hands upon him.
In this your cousin's death.
So long as out of limit and true rule
The dinner is on the table, my father desires your
I chafe you, if I tarry: let me go.
And wilt thou have a reason for this coil?
Sir, mine own company.
Oppose thy steadfast-gazing eyes to mine,
Than could his war resisted.
O, thou shalt find--
For making up this peace!' Thou know'st, great son,
And men may talk of kings, and why not I?
And, aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
never an eye in thy head? canst not hear? An
To her desired Posthumus: gone she is
Re-enter Servants severally
If you first sinn'd with us and that with us
And 'tis the very riches of thyself
Hast thou not dropp'd from heaven?
Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,
Alas, poor caitiff!
Exeunt
Never to hold it up again! the spirits
Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field,
attributes?
Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister,
From fairies and the tempters of the night
Nay, then I'll stop your mouth. Bring thou her husband:
parting, as the procuring of mirth: you come in
Even now, even here, not half an hour since.
That admiration did not whoop at them:
O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
That's true enough,
Exeunt
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
SCENE III. OLIVIA's garden.
He may at pleasure whip, or hang, or torture,
She laugh'd, and told the Moor he should not choose
Exeunt PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, and GRUMIO
I know none. Can you tell me of any?
Ay, Marcius, Caius Marcius: dost thou think
For in a night the best part of my power,
With this field-dew consecrate,
Commend me to my kind lord: O, farewell!
motion generative, that's infallible.
But thou anon shalt hear of me again,
With what great state he heard their embassy,
These are the youths that thunder at a playhouse,
Sits mocking in our plumes. O merchante fortune!
Enter PINDARUS
To celebrate the joy that God hath given us.
Even she, and is she not a heavenly saint?
Could never be her mild companion.
Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks,
She is not for your turn, the more my grief.
For eminent assistants, but, spider-like,
Enter CORDELIA, KENT, and Doctor
comforting therein, that when old robes are worn
find, I warrant you, that there is no tiddle toddle
Things for the cook, sir, but I know not what.
The Volsces are in arms.
The purpose why, is here: in which disguise,
Is richly noted and here justified
Lights that do mislead the morn:
Thou mayst revenge. O slave!
That I love her, I feel.
Alas, sir, I cannot fence.
And in that sea of blood my boy did drench
But I will beard him.
Or with our sighs we'll breathe the welkin dim,
That done, repair to Pompey's theatre.
To flatter up these powers of mine with rest,
Octavia to his wife, whose beauty claims
Exit
Upon this call o' the trumpet.
Yet wild, the people's hearts brimful of fear,
Marry, sir, half a day's journey: and I'll tell
And the right-valiant Banquo walk'd too late,
And so doth yours, your fault was not your folly:
Away, away! no time shall be omitted
You speak of him when he was less furnished than now
Welcome, ladies, Welcome!
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
From cold and empty veins, where no blood dwells,
thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam. Fare thee well.
subjection.
And tell me, in the modesty of honour,
we go seek Benedick, and tell him of her love?
For young hot colts being raged do rage the more.
Upon the love and truth and vows which I
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
Takest up the princess by that forced baseness
Seeing ARTHUR
There shalt thou find the mariners asleep
He, he 'tis he.
he would show most love. When yet he was but
And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff,
Ay, and let none enter, lest I break your pate.
Hot lavender, mints, savoury, marjoram,
He makes important: possess'd he is with greatness,
To save your brother from the sacrifice,
O dear discretion, how his words are suited!
Speak, brave Hector: we are much delighted.
Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock, I'll ring it,
Welcome, my lords. I wot your love pursues
Even in the faith of valour, to appear
How poor Andromache shrills her dolours forth!
Why, this boy will carry a letter twenty mile, as
let me bate,-but not like me--yet long'st,
Let him that thinks of me so abjectly
And thank us for your trouble.
Sir John Bracy from your father, you must to the
Make claim and title to the crown of France.
Hold, Toby, on thy life I charge thee, hold!
There, my lord.
He is drowned in the brook: look but in, and you
Break the neck of the wax, and every one give ear.
And one man in his time plays many parts,
Save you your labour. He that lies slain
When I shall pray, 'O bless my lord and husband!'
ACT I
Music, awake her, strike!
Ay, that's a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but
Blessing on your heart for't!
We'll try that, for I'll appoint my men to carry the
Through whom a thousand sighs are breathed for thee!
Come, follow me, boy, come, sir boy, come, follow me:
any more to your tents: I will keep where there is
The shrinking slaves of winter.
Anon, anon, sir.
Hold, daughter: I do spy a kind of hope,
that I know you are a gentleman of good conceit: I
Have lost my way for ever: I have a ship
This the very coinage of your brain:
Should ever get that privilege of me.
The which hath fire in darkness, none in light:
Heaven and fortune bar me happy hours!
Else, surely, his had equall'd.
Enter LEONATO and ANTONIO, meeting
For, as the case now stands, it is a curse
I'll not come back, the tidings that I bring
Now, sir, to you, that were so hot at sea,
d'Anglois vitement. Comment appelez-vous les ongles?
poor creature of earth.
For the love o' God, peace!
That presently you hie you home to bed.
Have written strange defeatures in my face:
Trampling contemptuously on thy disdain.
So out of thought, and thereto so o'ergrown,
So singular in each particular,
beyond Eton, they threw me off from behind one of
I will be squared by this. I do believe
More than the instant army we can make,
But be thou arm'd for some unhappy words.
But like a drunkard must I vomit them.
Stand'st thou aloof upon comparison?
one, they will beat us, for they bear them on their
That are given for 'em. Friendship's full of dregs:
The first departing of the king for Ireland.
An indistinct regard.
But are you not ashamed? nay, are you not,
So is the fame.
Kissing her
Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
Now prisoner to the palsy, chastise thee
fingers goes not with me.
have been in love?
Enter GLOUCESTER and EDMUND
Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,
A gait, a state, a brow, a breast, a waist,
How thou hast met us here, who three hours since
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
I said, an elder soldier, not a better:
Why me, Timon?
That you have bid us ask his liberty,
By this brave duke came early to his grave:
O God, counterfeit! There was never counterfeit of
And beat our watch, and rob our passengers,
Strike the proud cedars 'gainst the fiery sun,
mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal in folly.
And do expect him here some two hours hence.
With swifter spleen than powder can enforce,
The master calls, and trebles their confusion.
fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock. If I may be
While I myself will lead a private life
I'll overtake you. Speak.
friend here in necessity and denying him, and for
I wonder at this haste, that I must wed
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
Thou tedious rogue! I am sorry I shall lose
I pray you, tell me how my good friend doth.
I told him gently of our grievances,
A noble earl and many a creature else
I knew 'twas I, for many do call me fool.
To a hair.
Be not as extreme in submission
O, I am ignorance itself in this!
Aaron is gone, and my compassionate heart
We must both give and take, my gracious lord.
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
Then come, o' God's name, I fear no woman.
You shames of Rome! you herd of--Boils and plagues
Of dreaded justice, but on the ministers
The most remark'd i' the kingdom. As for Cromwell,
Sir Proteus, what says Silvia to my suit?
I shall be saved by my husband, he hath made me a
Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
To make a world-without-end bargain in.
his miseries, Britain be fortunate and flourish in
They shake their heads
To signify that rebels there are up
Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.
Alas, alas!
The name and not the thing.
Out of a foreign wisdom, renouncing clean
To BRABANTIO
And, ten to one, old Joan had not gone out.
It is apart
SCENE I. Rome. A public place.
The heavens with that we have in hand are angry
Your patience to you, and be well contented
My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
Whiles I in this affair do thee employ,
Shall not be sent: my hand will serve the turn:
In this which he accounts so clearly won:
Circumstance, the seventh, the Lie Direct. All
Be ruled by him.
My sword, my chariot and my prisoners,
Producing forth the cruel ministers
Only to despite them, I will endeavour any thing.
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, and I think
No, pardon, 'tis a secret must be locked within the
A match!
have him now,--and there,--and there again, and there.
Get you some of this distilled Carduus Benedictus,
I would not be a stander-by to hear
I am joyful
A noise within
Drums and trumpets sounded. Enter MARTIUS and  MUTIUS, After them, two Men bearing a coffin  covered with black, then LUCIUS and QUINTUS. After  them, TITUS ANDRONICUS, and then TAMORA, with  ALARBUS, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, AARON, and other Goths,  prisoners, Soldiers and people following. The Bearers set down the coffin, and TITUS speaks
While he enjoys the honour and his ease.
Enter EMILIA
That come to gather money for their corn.
Of this new sect? ye are not sound.
This is Pisanio's deed, and Cloten's: O!
To wash away my woful monuments.
Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace,
But there's no remedy, I shall answer it.
[To KING RICHARD III]
For thou are pleasant, gamesome, passing courteous,
some little measure draw a belief from you, to do
And hug it in mine arms.
Thersites, my lord.
His fortunes I will weep, and, 'twixt each groan
Exeunt
His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate,
acquaintance, I will be point-devise the very man.
Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue
Upon mine honour, no.
My dear lord,--
cudgelled, and I think the issue will be, I shall
SCENE II. Rousillon. Before the COUNT's palace.
Of thousand friends, then in a moment, see
were, too peregrinate, as I may call it.
Be to me and every man that dares not fight!
That which I gave you.
What's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate?
Whiles you are willing it shall come to note,
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
God be wi' you, take mine office. O wretched fool.
mine, for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs. I
fairer face.
Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.
To bless the bed of majesty again
I said, my lord, if you did know my parentage,
All lost! to prayers, to prayers! all lost!
Bring him again: this Jack of Caesar's shall
Enter a Soldier of CAESAR's
To make some good, but others to exceed,
What says she, fair one? that the tongues of men
For happy wedlock hours.
Were all the letters suns, I could not see one.
And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
Enter Sir William LUCY
Which here we waken to our country's good,
Enter two Pages
What will ensue hereof, there's none can tell,
Good angels guard thy battle! live, and flourish!
'Tis oft with difference--yet do they all confirm
Hold, take thou this, my sweet, and give me thine,
To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet,
embassage, and so I commit you--
Knocking within
The uncertain glory of an April day,
He is my father, sir, and, sooth to say,
Do 't in your parents' eyes! bankrupts, hold fast,
There is no leprosy but what thou speak'st.
DON
Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth,
I'll send the fool to Ajax and desire him
Calls your worship?
Hisperia, the princess' gentlewoman,
In this mutiny, the Tribunes, the AEdiles, and the People, are beat in
Ay, he said so, to make us fight cheerfully: but
These gloves the count sent me, they are an
In a disguise of love:
To see you ta'en from liberty, to look on
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
And but thou love me, let them find me here:
Put on by us, if, in your heavenly eyes,
Valiant, wise, remorseful, well accomplish'd:
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden,
With hounds of Sparta: never did I hear
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
Madam, I wish it may.
And give him light that it was blinded by.
the heavens were so pleased that thou wert but my
And make a riot on the gentle brow
Enter AENEAS and Trojans
him, Kate.
For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
Above this world, adding thereto moreover
The livelong day, with patient expectation,
Of teaching and of learning instantly.
of this walk, and my horns I bequeath your husbands.
I do give lost, for I do feel it gone,
The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber
And make a monster of you.
And more he would have said, and more he spoke,
Give me thy hand: I will swear to the prince thou
He's flung in rage from this ingrateful seat
A noise within, crying 'Room for the Queen!' Enter  QUEEN KATHARINE, ushered by NORFOLK, and SUFFOLK:  she kneels. KING HENRY VIII riseth from his state, takes her up, kisses and placeth her by him
yourself too much in the action, mounsieur, and,
Through the velvet leaves the wind,
O, my lord,
Look on her, mark her well, be but about
forbear both.
Alas, their love may be call'd appetite,
Scratches with briers,
To a strong mast that lived upon the sea,
Give me some present counsel, or, behold,
If the first hour I shrink and run away.
and grant of the whole table. He'll go, he says,
Would any of the stock of Barrabas
Than any woman in this waning age.
Thou shalt be punish'd for thus frighting me,
What, wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice?
Ride you this afternoon?
For dainties are all Kates, and therefore, Kate,
I wonder that thou, being, as thou sayest thou art,
And give it food. There is an old poor man,
O, all you gods! O pretty, pretty pledge!
What, the fair Ophelia!
cottages princes' palaces. It is a good divine that
To withhold the vengeance that they had in store,
With reservation of an hundred knights,
I after him do after him wish too,
this Jew my master. The fiend is at mine elbow and
The Earl of Westmoreland, seven thousand strong,
Art thou, indeed?
Without the privity o' the king, to appoint
And four shall quickly draw out my command,
great wit:' 'Right,' says she, 'a great gross one.'
Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport!
Their blood is caked, 'tis cold, it seldom flows,
Is telling you that I am poor of thanks
In vain thou speak'st, poor boy, my father's blood
You cannot guess who caused your father's death.
Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend,
Enter OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, CASSIO, and Attendants
I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most
Signior Baptista's liberality,
And I must pause till it come back to me.
too, howsoever he hath had intelligence.
Still your own foes, deliver you as most
Thou art a soldier, therefore seldom rich,
As he hath used of old.
Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
And, for unfelt imagination,
Your will to mine,--and you, sir, hear you,
Why, know'st thou any harm's intended towards him?
Your mind is all as youthful as your blood.
their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he
'Tis time
Subdued the Saxons, and did seat the French
Poor gentlewoman! my master wrongs her much.
he married but his occasion here.
Of what, son?
As best befits her wounded reputation,
Has the king this?
I'll none of it. Honour is a mere scutcheon: and so
Light vanity, insatiate cormorant,
But yesternight: when all athwart there came
What says she to my birth?
All the remain is 'Welcome!'
It should not be, by the persuasion of his new feasting.
I thank you for your wish, and am well pleased
I thank you, you shall hear from me anon:
capital? Tell me, for you seem to be honest plain
I'll take what winter from your lips, fair lady:
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
Which else no worldly good should draw from me.
For it is none but thine!
O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous!
shall be honourable. I'll procure this fat rogue a
were unhandsome, and being no other but as she is, I
Though not for me, yet for your vehement oaths,
Upon whose faith and honour I repose.
Tread not upon him. Masters all, be quiet,
Sir, I most humbly pray you to deliver
From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring,
And Brutus Antony, there were an Antony
sooner it wears. That thou art my son, I have
Have glozed, but superficially: not much
Took once a pliant hour, and found good means
You took occasion to be quickly woo'd
considered, as too much I cannot, to be more
Is apprehended for arrival here,
Well then, sustain him: O!
That e'er I sigh'd for: pity move my father
Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will
Sweet are the uses of adversity,
The sin of my ingratitude even now
Die when you will, a smock shall be your shroud.
Why then should I be consul? By yond clouds,
unknown, without seeking find, and be embraced by a
heard in Genoa,--
have eat no meat these five days, yet, come thou and
A prosperous south-wind friendly, we have cross'd,
For thou, poor man, hast drown'd it with thine own.
going to my wife, and Falstaff's boy with her. A
[Within]  An answer from the king, my
And lofty proud encroaching tyranny,
Well, if you be a king crown'd with content,
But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me:
Now, sir, to you.
A lover of thy drum, hater of love.
As modest stillness and humility:
to the king's exchequer.
him to his country for justice: grant it me, O
Exit
Caius Ligarius, that Metellus spake of.
Even in the lovely garnish of a boy.
After he scores, he never pays the score:
The fear of that withholds my present aid.
To the hearers, sir.
Before you open it.
Grow, patience!
Wherever in your sightless substances
Then die a calf, before your horns do grow.
They choose Ladies for the dance. KING HENRY VIII chooses ANNE
Flourish. Enter the FRENCH KING, the DAUPHIN, the DUKES of BERRI and BRETAGNE, the Constable, and others
That grows not in a fair consent with ours,
by my coming. Every man has his fault, and honesty
As to be cast forth in the common air,
Of all thy sex, most monster-like, be shown
The time right deadly, I beseech you, go.
If frosts and fasts, hard lodging and thin weeds
By a beloved prince, there doth appear
My lord, the first time that I ever saw him
silence, and work the peace of the present, we will
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
Besides her urging of her wreck at sea,--
And he the sun, for them to reverence,
with my excrement, with my mustachio, but, sweet
The fourth turn'd on the toe, and down he fell.
Heard ye not what an humble suppliant
On their abatement: that's not my desire:
Now, if you have a station in the file,
The good time of day to you, sir.
My lord, here are letters for you.
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
And those that you'll procure from King Leontes--
That must destroy thee.
Heavens make a star of him! Yet there, my queen,
a goodly count, Count Comfect, a sweet gallant,
I saw a smith stand with his hammer, thus,
Or when you waked, so waked as if you slept.
To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
Which for our goods we do no further ask
And now I will unclasp a secret book,
For what offence?
Creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses.
Let me behold thy face. Surely, this man
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
Which in my childhood I did dote upon,
O, marry me to one Frances: I smell some l'envoy,
to see Caesar and to rejoice in his triumph.
Master Brook, that you have cozened of money, to
'Twere good he were school'd.
Till either death hath closed these eyes of mine
Thou never didst them wrong, nor no man wrong,
But, leaving this, what is your grace's pleasure?
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
with a kind of injunction drives me to these habits
pastime with us a day or two, or longer: if
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
But, by the grace of God, and Hume's advice,
Come, lords, we trifle time away, I long
What is she but a foul contending rebel
the meat cool ere we can agree upon the first place:
Nay, hated too, worse than the great'st infection
Ho! says a' There's my cap.
matters, but with awl. I am, indeed, sir, a surgeon
It seems you know not, then, so much as we:
My mind as generous, and my shape as true,
If you but knew how you the purpose cherish
And why not you?
I will be silent.
Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire
To bless this twain, that they may prosperous be
Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you:
Led hither by pure love: which of them both
And made her widow to a woful bed?
day into the compassed window,--and, you know, he
Love they to live that love and honour have.
I had rather have my wounds to heal again
Beware the thane of Fife. Dismiss me. Enough.
Ay, sir.
Thou losest labour:
Sparkles this stone as it was wont? or is't not
trouble: the fashion of the world is to avoid
Truly, for mine own part, I would little or nothing
what villany soe'er I bid thee do, to perform it
But my true love is grown to such excess
SONG.
I say, they nourish'd disobedience, fed
A soldier and his horse.
man's son,' or rather an honest woman's son, for,
Tremble and start at wagging of a straw,
Ay, so well, that you must be her master,
'What shall befall the Duke of Somerset?'
I'll send my prayers with him.
What dost thou say, Iago?
Fear not: the forest is not three leagues off,
Agamemnon is a fool to offer to command Achilles,
The paper as the body of my friend,
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
Very easily possible: he wears his faith but as
Being men of such great leading as you are,
Knocking within
Why?
That I may speak with you, O, good my lord!
dagger with a master of fence, three veneys for a
March all one way and be no more opposed
His funerals shall not be in our camp,
Enter PRINCE HENRY, SALISBURY, and BIGOT
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
No one but he should be about the king,
Why, how now, my bawcock! how dost thou, chuck?
As they fly by them with their woven wings.
Against my crown, my oath, my dignity,
I now name to you, and with speed so pace
He fumbles up into a lose adieu,
shall have a praise in present: we will not name
Did I not bid thee meet me in the park,
[Aside]  If a talent be a claw, look how he claws
commonwealth, as which of you shall not? With this
Invest me in my motley, give me leave
you our voices heartily.
With foreheads villanous low.
To Servant
The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead
So is he, being a man.
Which signify what hate they bear their emperor
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
For now I spy a danger,--I entreat you
That I am forsworn for thee,
Good words, Thersites.
First go with me to church and call me wife,
Each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
It is too true an evil: gone she is,
With rocks unscalable and roaring waters,
Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night
You will do it?
And therefore we must needs admit the means
Are made, not mark'd, where violent sorrow seems
Exit
Your hazard shall be made.
chambers, search, seek, find out: I'll warrant
And found--dispatch. The noble duke my master,
Than my heart cool with mortifying groans.
Till you have heard me in my true complaint
So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons,
Who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger,
One thus descended,
My lord, I do confess I ne'er was married,
I kneel and then implore her blessing. Lady,
Not willing any longer conference,
Therefore, for goodness' sake, and as you are known
It is not seen enough, you should wear it in your
There is no woe to his correction,
That would not bless our Europe with your daughter,
What, and stake down?
No, no, he is dead:
What?
There did he pause: but let me tell the world,
between, but small thanks for my labour.
He owes nine thousand, besides my former sum,
I will peat his pate four days. Bite, I pray you, it
'Thou canst not choose but know who I am. If thou
And speed must answer it.
I would I might go to hell among the rogues. And so
Dispropertied their freedoms, holding them,
He and his forces enter the city
Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
No, Pandarus: I stalk about her door,
Thy father, Minos, that denied our course,
Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead
Peaceful commerce from dividable shores,
picture, and what I saw, to my good use I
Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms,
Many a matter hath he told to thee,
For it is known we were but hollow friends:
Some dozen Romans of us and your lord--
Who is it that can tell me who I am?
Than your good words. But who comes here?
I hold my life as dear as you do yours,
What secret hath held you here, that you followed
Benedick: nobody marks you.
His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine.
That by the top doth take the mountain pine,
No, forbear,
Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber. O,
If thou darest bring them to the baiting place.
Unmuffling
SCENE I. Cyprus. Before the castle.
Have glow'd like plated Mars, now bend, now turn,
By innocence I swear, and by my youth
he tell us his noble deeds, we must also tell him
Why, then All-Souls' day is my body's doomsday.
My lord, what is your will?
Let me stay at thine apperil, Timon: I come to
Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Before King Richard in his royal lists?
The soldiers should have toss'd me on their pikes
Set roaring war: to the dread rattling thunder
see but the issue of my jealousy: if I cry out thus
And make him with fair AEgle break his faith,
As to put metal in restrained means
And so will he do, for the man doth fear God,
Your deeds of war and all our counsel die?
And bless the good remainders of the court! I am gone.
Ay, what of that?
But never taint my love. I cannot say 'whore:'
Of all their loyalties: wherein, although,
That can we not, but he that proves the king,
Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me
Look, here she comes.
What is, my lord?
Our very loving sister, well be-met.
No more talking on't, let it be done: away, away!
In faith, I will go.
Make forth, the generals would have some words.
My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come,
To hide me from the radiant sun and solace
I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times,
serve me! Why should his mistress, who was made by
Nay, an I tell you that, Ill ne'er look you i' the
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
twenty years, and yet I am bewitched with the
A simple countryman, that brought her figs:
What think'st thou, then, of Stanley? what will he?
To tread them with her tender-feeling feet.
Well said, Lord Sands,
When rioting in Alexandria, you
I had in charge at my depart for France,
O, 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear,
Young in limbs, in judgment old,
Or else depart, here all eyes gaze on us.
Together with that pale, that white-faced shore,
How many sons of mine hast thou in store,
marvellous good neighbour, faith, and a very good
I can but say their protestation over,
Good even. Friar, where's the provost?
How meanest thou? brawling in French?
Enter Pandar, Bawd, and BOULT
let the issue show itself.
say there's but five upon this isle: we are three
We John Cade, so termed of our supposed father,--
Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
Madam, not now: I am very ill at ease,
Whereto we are bound, together with thy victory,
Where what is done in action, more, if might,
Much like to you, for you have just his bleat.
Enter a Messenger
Farewell, Cicero.
Slandering a prince deserves it.
grandmother: this proves that thou canst not read.
DON
A mangled shadow: perchance to-morrow
mains d'un chevalier, je pense, le plus brave,
thankful! And when she went away now, 'Let this
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
and down late, but notwithstanding,--to tell you in
Exeunt
Pawn me to this your honour, she is his.
Well, you are come to me in a happy time,
That I'll try.
Now am I dead,
What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
'cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum:' to the
This man hath had good counsel:--a hundred knights!
and afeard to speak! run away for shame, Alisander.
Who intercepts my expedition?
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword,
I lodge my wife, I'll go in couples with her,
That would make good of bad, and friends of foes!
I love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
I am not bid for love, they flatter me:
I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed
On Thursday we ourselves will march: our meeting
Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace:
And all the Greekish girls shall tripping sing,
For Anjou and fair Touraine, Maine, Poictiers,
Sweet Hero! She is wronged, she is slandered, she is undone.
Since he could draw a sword, and is ill school'd
When least in company. Prosper well in this,
This day my sister should the cloister enter
A charitable wish and full of love.
What, are they in this pit? O wondrous thing!
They're here with me already, whispering, rounding
Come, come, take it up.
Either for her stay or going: the affair cries haste,
sister. But mark how heavily this befell to the
To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave,
And we shall make full satisfaction.
I do, thou most usurping proditor,
To whom all sores lay siege, can bear great fortune,
Untimely comes this hurt: give me your arm.
The visitor will not give him o'er so.
Must he needs trouble me in 't,--hum!--'bove
Tut, a pin! this shall be answered.
nightingale. Hopdance cries in Tom's belly for two
BISHOP
Joshua, yourself, myself and this gallant gentleman,
And that dead saint which then I weeping follow'd,
He whined and roar'd away your victory,
England and France, and lord of Ireland,  and c.
And see the ambush of our friends be strong,
Or like a whale?
In what vile part of this anatomy
lord, fie! a soldier, and afeard? What need we
Sir, induced by my charity, and hearing how hastily
Le Roy! a Cornish name: art thou of Cornish crew?
O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
make your two affirmatives why then, the worse for
Hang him, dishonest rascal! I would all of the same
That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet,
Seek him with candle, bring him dead or living
To bring your most imperial majesties
Exeunt
Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul slut
Ariel and all his quality.
Well, let it not be doubted but he'll come:
No unchaste action, or dishonour'd step,
often burst and now repaired with knots, one girth
Save that there was not time enough to hear,
care of him: I would not have him miscarry for the
No more the thirsty entrance of this soil
I hate not you for her proud arrogance.
outprized by a trifle.
in. The remembrance of her father never approaches
till I do come to London, where we will have the
To have her back return'd: thus to persist
Of their disguising and pretended flight,
Too old by heaven: let still the woman take
And all too soon, I fear, the king shall rue.
For which the pardoner himself is in.
Which should sustain the bound and high curvet
An angry brow, dread lord.
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
Well, my good lord.
Come, my lord.
man's good wit seconded with the forward child
O my follies! then Edgar was abused.
That can entame my spirits to your worship.
Yield to our mercy, proud Plantagenet.
Henceforth be never number'd among men!
I know not whether to depart in silence,
I came with Hermia hither: our intent
And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard?
What will whole months of tears thy father's eyes?
that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters
Religious in mine error, I adore
And, as we walk along, I dare be bold
'Some are born great,'--
beard ere the black ones were there. To say 'ay'
Richard, I will create thee Duke of Gloucester,
Tarry, sweet soul, for mine, then fly abreast,
To be afraid to tell graybeards the truth?
And I have read that Hecuba of Troy
I afeard of him! A very weak monster! The man i'
Himself with princes, one that, by suggestion,
mine honour thou hadst it not.
Deny me not, I prithee, gentle Joan.
Enter CORIN and SILVIUS
Unfit for other life, compell'd by hunger
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Would have him wed again.
An please your majesty, let his neck answer for it,
Might well have warm'd old Saturn, that I thought her
burden: do you sing it, and I'll dance it.
This sickly land might solace as before.
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
And am right glad he is not standing here
Enter RODERIGO and IAGO
confess nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry for my cousin.
enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword
And, which was strange, the one so like the other,
By whom, Camillo?
And spur thee on with full as many lies
yourselves, no matter, for we must not seem to
Nay, that's certain, they that dally nicely with
They were villains, murderers: the will! read the will.
You had a motive for't.
We'll hold a feast in great solemnity.
Kneels
No more than he'll unswear.
The leading of thine own revenges, take
I would not care, I then would be content,
Whither I am going.
tailors, and breed ballad-makers.
Say you so? come on.
And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools,
condition, and what credit I have with the duke.
Know what it is to meet Achilles angry:
You know the character to be your brother's?
And the persuasion of his augurers,
Of every fool, whose sense no more can feel
Follow my voice: we'll try no manhood here.
man, though he do nothing but reprove.
thyself giddy with the fashion too, that thou hast
Give up your staff, sir, and the king his realm.
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you,
I humbly thank your highness.
the flatterer. Heavens, that I were a lord!
Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty,
to marry me well, and not being well married, it
If case some one of you would fly from us,
A half-faced groat five hundred pound a year!
SCENE V. Another part of the plains.
We met here both to thank and to remember
Which are to France the spies and speculations
His time doth take.
That with your other noble parts you'll suit
For, hearing this, I must perforce compound
Starr'd most unluckily, is from my breast,
This proves me still a sheep.
No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York:
And parted thus you and your argument.
As e'er thy father Henry made it mine,
Welcome, my lord	what is the news?
'Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
Come thou on my side, and entreat for me,
Whip me? No, no, let carman whip his jade:
I should cut off the nobles for their lands,
Of such a time: being my sworn servant,
Enter EDGAR and GLOUCESTER
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
The armourers, accomplishing the knights,
But as we, under heaven, are supreme head,
Figures pedantical, these summer-flies
cudgel, and twenty pounds of money, which must be
Give him all kindness: I had rather have
My bluest veins to kiss, a hand that kings
By no means, sir: Time travels in divers paces with
Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants,
Even as the waving sedges play with wind.
But yet I'll bury thee: thou'lt go, strong thief,
Look, what I speak, my life shall prove it true,
For mercy to his country. Therefore, let's hence,
And I--God bless the mark!--his Moorship's ancient.
Then marvel not, thou great and complete man,
may carry it thus, for our pleasure and his penance,
drink, and drink sooner than pray: and yet, zounds,
With Demetrius.
I know thee not: thy name?
But be thou mild and blush not at my shame,
Is this the daughter of a king?
That I would all my pilgrimage dilate,
I scorn thy meat, 'twould choke me, for I should
I thank both him and you, and pledge him freely.
Whose love is never link'd to the deserver
[Reads]  Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all
The queen of Naples.
Edmund, farewell.
Of dangerous majesty, when perchance it frowns
Enter ROSS and an old Man
Sir, you have done enough, and have perform'd
being made,
For the rest of the Worthies?--
I know not yet.
and then have to't a fresh. Sweet Bianca! Happy man
So please you entertain me.
But must condemn it now. Desist, and drink.
The day is ours, the bloody dog is dead.
done? It must be a very plausive invention that
That it yields nought but shame and bitterness.
I know not by what power I am made bold,
No blame be to you, sir, for all was lost,
with Benedick for his company, for, from the crown
For you to laugh and leap and say you are merry,
They are, as all my other comforts, far hence
Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown,
Plainly conceive, I love you.
It is no matter, now I have't again.
Till he come home again, I would forbear.
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
Would the two princes lie, and Claudio lie,
good soldiers and tall fellows, and when Mistress
Will give her sadness very little cure.
Why, what effects of passion shows she?
Before the wound do grow uncurable,
And all the fair effects of future hopes.
Smile upon this contract, whose ceremony
Of that and all the progress, more or less,
He is a happy king, since he gains from his subjects
Come on, thou art granted space.
And when I am on horseback, I will swear
third, if he fight longer than he sees reason, I'll
We shall be much unwelcome.
Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
His language in his tears.
horses: the duke himself will be to-morrow at
Stabs himself
if he could burn us all into one coal,
Our lamp is spent, it's out! Good sirs, take heart:
That I may speak: I'll write straight to my sister,
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
Take hence the rest, and give them burial here.
From helmet to the spur all blood he was.
All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, thane of Glamis!
That will be ere the set of sun.
How now, my masters! have you chose this man?
Comets, importing change of times and states,
No, unpin me here.
Enter MENENIUS and SICINIUS
What stuff 'tis made of, whereof it is born,
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
Thou hast affected the fine strains of honour,
why the more is for your honesty.
Her madness hath the oddest frame of sense,
for you, and here's some for me: we may call it
Take special care my greetings be deliver'd.
What shall be our sport, then?
Being unprevented, to your timeless grave.
What is't o'clock?
a bloody coxcomb too: for the love of God, your
And this withal.
I have a young conception in my brain,
match. O, if men were to be saved by merit, what
And now what rests but, in night's coverture,
Pulls off the friar's hood, and discovers DUKE VINCENTIO
Shout. Trumpets flourish
Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
By learned approbation of the judges. If I am
sexton hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter:
Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots?
Justice design the victor's chivalry.
Is't Cade that I have slain, that monstrous traitor?
And should you fall, he as the next will mount.
And as for you, that love to be protected
His bed shall seem a school, his board a shrift,
My name be blotted from the book of life,
Fortune is an excellent moral.
Plead my successive title with your swords:
Enter VIOLA, MALVOLIO following
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
Are you not stronger than you were?
And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air
O, he is mad, Laertes.
Drawn in the flattering table of her eye!
Even in their throats that have committed them.
inkle?'--'One penny.'--'No, I'll give you a
The crows to peck the eagles.
But when I came, some minute ere the time
The duke is made protector of the realm,
Give me your hand: you are now within a foot
To be thus taunted, scorn'd, and baited at:
Get me a taper in my study, Lucius:
To weaken and discredit our exposure,
We'll talk of that hereafter. Prithee, speak,
very strange beasts, which in all tongues are called fools.
And yet I fear you, for you are fatal then
To execution and the hand of death.
His contemplation were above the earth,
He flatly says he'll not lay down his arms.
Of Edward king, the third of that descent:
But, as thou lovest thy life, make speed from hence.
beauties, let me sustain no scorn, I am very
Their grand commission, where I found, Horatio,--
But knows he thinks that he knows Isabel's.
these gifts a curtain before 'em? are they like to
Let us, like merchants, show our foulest wares,
My Lord Bassanio upon more advice
I spy.
And with my fingers feel his hand unfeeling:
Presently?
To mine own fortune and inform'd her fully
only numbers ratified, but, for the elegancy,
And say 'Alas, it was a piteous deed!'
But still, where danger was, still there I met him,
get his sinews to make catlings on.
soar, I am a hawk: he trots the air, the earth
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
Stabb'd by the selfsame hand that made these wounds!
Making not reservation of yourselves,
Whiles others play the idiots in her eyes!
We might proceed to cancel of your days,
Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.
Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
the weaker vessel, as doublet and hose ought to show
am the besom that must sweep the court clean of such
If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew,
Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or
His corrigible neck, his face subdued
I saw him in the battle range about,
And quickly bring us word of England's fall.
The safety and health of this whole state,
Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
This just and learned priest, Cardinal Campeius,
For Edward my son, which was Prince of Wales,
Nor much oppress'd them with great subsidies.
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
O, from Italy
My gracious lords, to add to your laments,
He last asked the question. Poor rogues, and
Ready, with every nod, to tumble down
Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak.
Here to unfold, though lately we intended
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: the
Enter a Messenger
Wanton as youthful goats, wild as young bulls.
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
Varro's Servant	Thou art not altogether a fool.
The providence that's in a watchful state
Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions and spirit,
Of wide Arabia are as thoroughfares now
Go, get you gone, and pray be careful all,
I and my sword will earn our chronicle:
But only they have privilege to live.
Be angry, and dispatch. O, couldst thou speak,
thee profitably.
No, not that name was given me at the font,
Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their grave.
According to our threefold order ta'en?
SCENE I. London. An ante-chamber in the KING'S palace.
So, so: farewell, we are gone.
A lover's eyes will gaze an eagle blind,
Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy.
rib-breaking? Shall we see this wrestling, cousin?
All those which were his fellows but of late,
Sir Robert's son: why scorn'st thou at sir Robert?
Let me be privileged by my place and message,
To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward:
The thieves have bound the true men. Now could thou
Which still hath been both grave and prosperous,
hours at the trade.
Now, fellow,
calamity, so beauty's a flower. The lady bade take
clovest thy crown i' the middle, and gavest away
carries it: they begin to smoke me, and disgraces
More dazzled and drove back his enemies
Be left her to perform. Come, follow us,
Now the fair goddess, Fortune,
The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, the
Which, you say, live to come in my behalf.
He needs no indirect nor lawless course
Durst thou have look'd upon him being awake,
When we our betters see bearing our woes,
How this foul rout began, who set it on,
Most worthy sir, you therein throw away
Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain.
As heaven had lent her all his grace,
Or feed on nourishing dishes, or keep you warm,
we make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves
Imagine 'twere the right Vincentio.
The matter being afoot, keep your instruction,
You are my guest, Lavinia, and your friends.
Jove, I thank thee: I will smile, I will do
Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work.
I am too old to fawn upon a nurse,
The one has my pity, not a jot the other,
than as a very pretence and purpose of unkindness:
Of your complexion.
A show of Eight Kings, the last with a glass in his hand, GHOST OF BANQUO following
Came to my tent, and cried on victory:
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear,
effusion of our blood, the muster of his kingdom too
And fit you to your manhood. May the gods
To speak your bosom freely.
Out of his self-drawing web, he gives us note,
At your kind'st leisure.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Cardinal, I am with you.
A thing not in his power to bring to pass,
Exeunt severally
have his head on her shoulders for all Messina, as
Doth your lordship call?
Raise up the Montagues: some others search:
You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart.
And shall be absent. Wend you with this letter:
When you do find him, or alive or dead,
What thinkest thou, will our friends prove all true?
Where I espied the panther fast asleep.
And here are to be answer'd. Tell me, my daughters,--
If so, gaze on, and grovel on thy face,
By devilish policy art thou grown great,
First to my God and next unto your grace.
I have kept you next my heart, have not alone
And do you now put on your best attire?
Loosing upon thee, in the name of justice,
To raise so great a siege. Therefore, great king,
Are yet two Romans living such as these?
difference betwixt our Bohemia and your Sicilia.
I have taught him, even as one would say precisely,
To that I call!
We shall begin our ancient bickerings.
Anon!
Falls
Enter HELENA and Clown
I know not what 'twas but distraction.
[Aside to ISABELLA]           Ay, well said.
Or if thou hast not broke from company
This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.
Either be ruled by me, or I will make you--
O, she knew well
Will't not be?
You bless me, gods!
Supply your present wants and take no doit
Madam, I heard her speak, she is low-voiced.
I have bethought me of another fault.
Who is too good to pity thee.
I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
What shall be done? he will not hear, till feel:
And many strokes, though with a little axe,
Richmond is on the seas.
Myself or Menelaus?
I am the last that will last keep his oath.
Like a bold champion, I assume the lists,
Whereof my sovereign would have note, they are
Never believe it:
Sings
Of all our fortunes: but if we haply scape,
Have you inform'd them sithence?
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
Than where castles mounted stand.
I'll think them every one an Antony,
my apron: and, Will, thou shalt have my hammer:
Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
Madam, now shall ye see
Who hath for four or five removes come short
O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked
I will not flatter her.
Yet let her be a principality,
Come thou no more for ransom, gentle herald:
And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms,
Only make trial what your love can do
Lag of a brother? Why bastard? wherefore base?
Calls her a nonpareil: I never saw a woman,
Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
Your husband is at hand, I hear his trumpet:
[Aside]  She needs not, when she knows it cowardice.
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues,
Upon them! victory sits on our helms.
And this is all a liberal course allows,
To see the things thou dost not. Now, now, now, now:
Then I am paid,
With this, we charged again: but, out, alas!
O father Abram, what these Christians are,
ran away upon instinct, you will not touch the true
4. Choristers, singing.
Art thou Revenge? and art thou sent to me,
his eye, talks like a knell, and his hum is a
The wildest savagery, the vilest stroke,
Shake off the golden slumber of repose.
Of your fair courtesy.
Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat
I see you have a month's mind to them.
I am nothing: or if not,
One of our convent, and his confessor,
A sweet Athenian lady is in love
It was so, sir, for she had a green wit.
Rome will despise her for this foul escape.
Brentford: but that my admirable dexterity of wit,
great oneyers, such as can hold in, such as will
Exeunt
You take pleasure then in the message?
Yet, were there but this single plot to lose,
I now go toward him, therefore follow me
I deny your major: if you will deny the sheriff,
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
This night's great business into my dispatch,
Such and so finely bolted didst thou seem:
What a full fortune does the thicklips owe
I shall.
But we are spirits of another sort:
ANTIPHOLUS
renown made it not stir, was pleased to let him seek
Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you,
twelvemonth to a crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,
The nature of your griefs, and whereupon
Heavens, have I said, the bounty of this lord!
Than my unpleased eye see your courtesy.
Art thou my calf?
For he went sickly forth: and take good note
We will try it.
How soon this mightiness meets misery:
My matter is so rash: there is at hand
Why should she live, to fill the world with words?
You must have patience, madam.
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric,
By words or blows here let us win our right.
To mine own children in good bringing up:
Why, may one ask?
And, yet brought forth less than a mother's hope,
I'll show't the king and undertake to be
And thou hast given me most bitter terms.
You are much more attask'd for want of wisdom
Enter KING JOHN, ARTHUR, and HUBERT
O heinous, strong and bold conspiracy!
Exit PAROLLES
secrets, but you must be tittle-tattling before all
I love thee.
A leg, a limb?
Good madam, hear me.
Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!
Postures beyond brief nature, for condition,
Not?
And duty never yet did want his meed:
SCENE IV. The Boar's-Head Tavern, Eastcheap.
Be not deceived: if I have veil'd my look,
Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure,
Subjected tribute to commanding love,
Why, fool, I meant not thee, I meant thy master.
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
To have a thousand with red burning spits
Enter KING HENRY VIII and SUFFOLK
Of general ignorance,--it must omit
Dinner is ready, and your father stays.
does well, but how does it well? it does well to
Is, to determine of the coronation.
I go. Write to me very shortly.
And will have no attorney but myself,
Tell him his fears are shallow, wanting instance:
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
And twenty times made pause to sob and weep,
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
Of merchant-marring rocks?
Please you walk in, my lords.
If there were reason for these miseries,
Whose house, whose bed, whose meal, and exercise,
A losing suit against him. Are you answer'd?
The body's delicate: the tempest in my mind
Than curse it then. But be it, let it live.
Base Trojan, thou shalt die.
O Thou that judgest all things, stay my thoughts,
Women! Help Heaven! men their creation mar
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke,
Unto the state of Venice.
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
He.
Horrible sight! Now, I see, 'tis true,
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
The insatiate greediness of his desires,
I will attend her here,
There is more in it. Cousin Ganymede!
never think that lady would have loved any man.
extracted from many objects, and indeed the sundry's
Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child,
A French song and a fiddle has no fellow.
A Daniel, still say I, a second Daniel!
Let it not, Brutus.
As I have to be hurt. O gull! O dolt!
You have heard of my poor services, i' the love
they would have drowned a blind bitch's puppies,
day.
And to be shortly of a sisterhood,
Than one condemn'd by the king's own mouth, thereon
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding,
I'ld rather than the worth of thrice the sum,
if they suffer our departure, death's the word.
Behold her well, I pray you, look upon her:
it was against our will.
To understand a law, to know the meaning
As by your high imperial majesty
Enter SHYLOCK and LAUNCELOT
Let him not seek 't of us: by day and night,
And so return to you, and nothing else?
They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
A foot of honour better than I was,
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
To vouch this, is no proof,
'Faith, she would serve after a long voyage at sea.
Since the more fair and crystal is the sky,
Lucilius' Servant	Five thousand mine.
I have lived long enough: my way of life
Be drain'd! Let me embrace thee, Ajax:
This tune goes manly.
Which I respect not. I did send to you
Young Arthur is alive: this hand of mine
For following her affairs. Put in his legs.
Good ancient, you are welcome.
This is a sleepy tune. O murderous slumber,
DON
If the skin were parchment, and the blows you gave were ink,
You know the fiery quality of the duke,
There is, betwixt that smile we would aspire to,
I wish your highness
As if he were his officer: desperation
By this hand, it will not kill a fly. But come, now
The varying shore o' the world. O Antony,
Enter POMPEY
Now death shall stop his dismal threatening sound,
greatness whereof I cannot enough commend, comes
God's arm strike with us! 'tis a fearful odds.
SCENE III. A heath near Forres.
Be thou a flatterer now, and seek to thrive
Here, Peter Quince.
If this same were a churchyard where we stand,
Lucilius' Servant	Ha! is not that his steward muffled so?
What with our help, what with the absent king,
comes to fight.
If so thou think'st, vex him with eager words.
When all our pageants of delight were play'd,
yet was not the knight forsworn.
head, nor no money in your purse? Your eyes are in
O, let me entreat thee cease. Give me thy hand,
Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel
And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
Before, behind thee, and on every hand,
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.
O, farewell, dear Hector!
Nor ever had one penny bribe from France.
My hand, bully, thou shalt have egress and regress,
the peace.
And, commendable proved, let's die in pride.
Upon condition I may quietly
will is, it should be so returned: if it be worth
Butchers and villains! bloody cannibals!
The basin that receives your guilty blood.
There's one did laugh in's sleep, and one cried
Not a dump we, 'tis no time to play now.
Lavinia is thine elder brother's hope.
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Of that sweet way I was in to despair!
The sweetest sleep, and fairest-boding dreams
Our potency made good, take thy reward.
Both by myself and many other friends:
And his old hate unto you, besides, forget not
That we have given him cause.
I will lead them up and down:
And praise myself for charity.
C'est bien dit, madame, il est fort bon Anglois.
in my tent.
That youth is surely in their company.
They are, my liege,
Or rudely visit them in parts remote,
Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages:
Most certain of one mother, mighty king,
Must you be therefore proud and pitiless?
Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven,
The deadly-handed Clifford slew my steed,
I cannot choose
Eros,
And when I have heard it, what blessing brings it?
Then did the sun on dunghill shine.
So let it be with Caesar. The noble Brutus
And these he masters now: now he weighs time
parted their fathers. Will it please you to see the
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, for Hector
It is the best horse of Europe.
What, marry, may she?
trim ones too: he is now as valiant as Hercules
follows not thee: therefore thou art a sheep.
It shall be done, my sovereign, with all speed.
There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight,
Under my burthen groan'd, which raised in me
The flattering index of a direful pageant,
joy crown another, so and in such manner that it
world's pleasure and the increase of laughter.
The dogs did yell: put L to sore, then sorel jumps
yourself and I will not be there, and when they
this world. Here, Robin, an if I die, I give thee
My native English, now I must forego:
Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
time enough to go home. What shall I say I have
One time will owe another.
What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah:
You stared upon me with ungentle looks,
That love I begg'd for you he begg'd of me.
Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice
Of full three thousand ducats. What of that?
Than when she lived indeed, then shall he mourn,
'Tis fond to wail inevitable strokes,
Feed him with apricocks and dewberries,
And make a mutual closure of our house.
O lord archbishop,
against God's peace and the king's, we charge and
thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature:
To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand,
speak a good word to Mistress Anne Page for my
And there is my Lord of Worcester and a head
O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
hast not slept to-night? would he not, a naughty
The former Hero! Hero that is dead!
Which now the manage of two kingdoms must
My services to your lordship.
Thou wretch, despite o'erwhelm thee!
Now here he fights on Galathe his horse,
thoughts of your heart with the looks of an empress,
And make assurance here in Padua
Upon the left hand of the even field.
If fear hath made thee faint, as me it hath--
And died so?
Richly in two short hours. Only they
I want more uncles here to welcome me.
'And some have greatness thrust upon them.'
If you shall send them word you will not come,
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, REIGNIER, and forces
'Tis double wrong, to truant with your bed
Study me how to please the eye indeed
Exeunt LUCENTIO, BIANCA, and BIONDELLO
Into this breathing world, scarce half made up,
To yield possession to my holy prayers
O royal Caesar!
Yea, all my raiment, to my petticoat,
Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn
a pitch,--pitch that defiles: defile! a foul
if you will let your lady know I am here to speak
Of this child-changed father!
Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
So does it no man else. Met'st thou my posts?
O, thou hast damnable iteration and art indeed able
Come, sirs, convey me to the block of shame,
As is the bud bit with an envious worm,
her rise from her bed, throw her night-gown upon
I ne'er heard yet
whoreson dog! you slave! you cur!
No.
And, being prostrate, thus he bade me say:
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be
Will make him say I moved him to those arms.
To Bolingbroke.
O, take her home, mistress, take her home: these
With six Aufidiuses, or more, his tribe,
Heaven and our Lady gracious hath it pleased
What an alteration of honour
Whereof the king my brother stood possess'd.
Nor feel him where he struck: being an ugly monster,
Why should hard-favour'd grief be lodged in thee,
man, but, I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks
But I a beam do find in each of three.
A halting sonnet of his own pure brain,
To think that or our cause or our performance
Where have you this? 'tis false.
Let 'em enter.
Exeunt all but Boy
Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will.
If thou livest, Pericles, thou hast a heart
Made tame and most familiar to my nature,
Thou hast the most unsavoury similes and art indeed
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
You are my true and honourable wife,
Proclaims how she esteem'd him and his virtue,
To name the bigger light, and how the less,
God comfort thee! Why dost thou smile so and kiss
Enter PUCK
SCENE III. The plains near Rouen.
You hear my spell is lawful: do not shun her
Return the precedent to these lords again,
As for your spiteful false objections,
Is your perfection. This is Timon's last,
How much unlike art thou Mark Antony!
Unto the French the dreadful judgement-day
Never so truly happy, my good Cromwell.
Give me advantage of some brief discourse
Tut! I have the best armour of the world. Would it were day!
of that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your
Whereof we have ta'en good and good store, of all
If you have heard your general talk of Rome,
If Somerset be unworthy of the place,
I dare be sworn you were:
Force should be right, or rather, right and wrong,
Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.
Hold you there: farewell.
Their own particular thrifts, they would do that
No.
[Aside]	To betray me.--
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and LEPIDUS
which I will be ever to pay and yet pay still.
Not now to hear thee sing, I take no pleasure
Why, what of that?
I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love:
Exit
Fair princess, welcome to the court of Navarre.
Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf,
To prove him false that says I love thee not.
Holden at Bury the first of this next month.
Music within. Enter a Servingman
Enter TITUS LARTIUS, with his power, from the pursuit
it up. Fellow kings, I tell you that that Lord Say
Bottom! O most courageous day! O most happy hour!
My mind is changed, sir, my mind is changed.
puppy, one that I saved from drowning, when three or
Soft son!
Richly in both, if justice had her right.
of mine: how worthy he is I will leave to appear
Must needs appear offence.
to you.	Your unfortunate son,
Looking at the jewel
No great offence belongs to't, give your friend
And how do yours?
As it is here set down.
My legs are longer though, to run away.
France, hast thou yet more blood to cast away?
Exit IAGO
stranger sense. Her matter was, she loved your son:
And all great fears, which now import their dangers,
O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing.
Torments will ope your lips.
in paying it, it is impossible I should live, all
Is a black Ethiope reaching at the sun
With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls,
Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and army
Enter DUKE
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
shall never requite him.
If you would not so,
With giving him glory.
You have said, sir.
You must leave this.
I prophesied France will be lost ere long.
a countenance! is't not a brave man?
And all this I give you. Let me be your servant:
Before the eye and prospect of your town,
And such a piece of service will you do,
And I, her husband, contradict your bans.
The trees, though summer, yet forlorn and lean,
Yet hear me, countrymen, yet hear me speak.
We hold our time too precious to be spent
Nothing, sir, but that I am beaten.
Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.
Fed in heart, whose flames aspire
time gentler than other, and at every putting-by
Excepting one, I would he were the best
My worth unknown, no loss is known in me.
As thou affect'st.
The secret'st man of blood. What is the night?
Some of us would lie low.
But she may learn, happier than this,
And not dismember Caesar! But, alas,
You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine,
Sent by the heavens for Prince Saturnine,
Transform me then, and to your power I'll yield.
But now two paces of the vilest earth
comparison--had been something too fair and too good
But, notwithstanding, haste, make no delay:
I'll lay my head to any good man's hat,
William, how many numbers is in nouns?
[To JULIET]  If I profane with my unworthiest hand
And, now it is my chance to find thee out,
And in that very line, Harry, standest thou,
Then turn your forces from this paltry siege
Who is the second that presents himself?
Dies
Against my power, thrice from the banks of Wye
As for another secret close intent,
That bloodily did spawn upon his face,
His new-come champion, virtuous Joan of Arc,
The woe's to come, the children yet unborn.
Will never let come forth.
When shall we hear from him?
Well learned is that tongue that well can thee commend,
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
You advise me well.
Give sentence on this execrable wretch,
As hotly and as nobly with thy love
Good morrow, Catesby, you are early stirring
half of my dowry.
On the fore-finger of an alderman,
Their warlike fraughtage: now on Dardan plains
All fortune to the good Simonides!
Enter the Boy with a linstock
And where care lodges, sleep will never lie,
A neat-herd's daughter, and my Leonatus
To take her by the hand and bid her go,
Or ever, but in vizards, show their faces?
And make her bear the penance of her tongue?
My honourable lords, health to you all!
I will hereupon confess I am in love: and as it is
Till France be won into the Dauphin's hands:
By some, that know not why he is away,
Edward's unhappy sons do bid thee flourish.
Where he abides.
By nature proved an enemy to the flock,
It shall be stony. York not our old men spares,
This hateful imperfection of her eyes:
You saw one here in court could witness it.
kinsman Toby,--
That's all I seek:
Golden opinions from all sorts of people,
There lives within the very flame of love
Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.
What kind of help?
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
No.
In Britain where was he
Bid them home:
A most incomparable man, breathed, as it were,
Health, at your bidding, serve your majesty!
Enter CLEOMENES and DION
Give the word through.
All the pictures fairest lined
This Ajax is half made of Hector's blood:
Sweet, adieu. I'll keep my oath,
To the cardinal's:
And wrap our bodies in black mourning gowns,
And nothing can or shall content my soul
Let Ajax go to him.
wears a lock.
How you can frown than spend a fawn upon 'em,
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
that I can write my name.
Send your trunk to me, it shall safe be kept,
Of gallowglasses and stout kerns
Why should I play the Roman fool, and die
Go forth and fetch their conquering Caesar in:
fair Hero is won: I have broke with her father,
boy, will be worth a Jewess' eye.
Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested,
Have you climb'd up to walls and battlements,
To hear? or forbear laughing?
A' will betray us all unto ourselves:
And stole into the covert of the wood:
Lady, what man is he you are accused of?
my learning.
Die and be damn'd! and figo for thy friendship!
Or how stolen from the dead.
Enter a Goth, leading AARON with his Child in his arms
Diffusest honey-drops, refreshing showers,
about your neck, like an usurer's chain? or under
With my master's ship? why, it is at sea.
tell you, that, though she harbours you as her
What means your ladyship? do you not like it?
Shall we give over Orleans, or no?
I know you do not love me, for your sisters
And seen the desolation of your streets:
Why then, by God--
chambers, and in the coffers, and in the presses,
wager, first begins to crow?
Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
From false to false, among false maids in love,
So many greedy looks of young and old
But this thy countenance, still lock'd in steel,
Or Cytherea's breath, pale primroses
instruct her in it and compel her to some second
Pray God, I say, I prove a needless coward!
And, look you, here's your letter, this it says:
Why, how are we censured?
Till we assign you to your days of trial.
That fill the court with quarrels, talk, and tailors.
A' would have ten shares.
Will vouch the truth of it. Him I accuse
O, wilt thou darkling leave me? do not so.
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
And in dimension and the shape of nature
and too much too.
Good sir, be a man,
What think you on't?
Why dost thou quiver, man?
Toward the king first, then his laws, in filling
Who loves another best.
Than with an old one dying.
According to the fashion and the time.
To their approvers they are people such
My lord chamberlain,
Discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
He hath a kind of honour sets him off,
My good lord,
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
et en peu de temps.
For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.
Aside
As on the other side it takes from you.
Gets him to rest, cramm'd with distressful bread,
To seek a living in our territory.
SCENE VII. Florence. The Widow's house.
And promise you calm seas, auspicious gales
Ask my dog: if he say ay, it will! if he say no,
Or wallow naked in December snow
No, I'll not be your half
And laugh this sport o'er by a country fire,
Twenty-three days
To wind, to stop, to run directly on,
I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
You say true:
That I require a clearness: and with him--
Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot,
saved me my pains, to have taken it away yourself.
And that will quickly dry thy melting tears.
May you a better feast never behold,
Your charms and every thing beside.
Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
I tell thee what: get thee to church o' Thursday,
exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it, they
Here in this island we arrived, and here
lords: they have acquainted me with their
Death! my lord,
By your pardon,
And leap for joy, though they are lame with blows:
Forswear themselves as often as they speak:
She is dead.
Ay, marry, now my soul hath elbow-room,
Have given you here a third of mine own life,
That cannot so much as a blossom yield
There's place and means for every man alive.
He'll call you to so hot an answer of it,
me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's
Enjoy thy plainness,
You had much ado to make his anchor hold:
A chair brought in
Nor I in yours
Exit
Well, well, put up your sword.
And look you lay it in the praetor's chair,
To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean:
horse is tied up safe: out, sword, and to a sore
followed the arts!
Should he make me
this advantage, first, that your stay with him may
What? what?
But yet so just that he will not revenge.
Descends
Quick, quick! we'll come dress you straight: put
what they do.
Perceived Northumberland did lean to him,
How!
Fell banning hag, enchantress, hold thy tongue!
congealed ice, that I know to be true: and he is a
Horns whelk'd and waved like the enridged sea:
Here if thou stay, thou canst not see thy love,
Dost thou know me, fellow?
I slept the next night well, was free and merry,
When thou hast stolen away from fairy land,
Where is this rash and most unfortunate man?
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
Till I conveniently could send to Romeo:
To call him villain? and then to glance from him
What mutter you, or what conspire you, lords?
Thou must be my ambassador to him, Thersites.
So are the horses of the enemy
Bardolph, if your majesty know the man: his face is
Pursue each other, or shall be divided
Ha, ha, ha! Well, masters, good night: an there be
My lord?
in lieu thereof, impose on thee nothing but this:
I do estate unto Demetrius.
How now, Roderigo!
Farewell: our countrymen are gone and fled,
From his most famed of famous ancestors,
SCENE II. Before the cave of Belarius.
That he in sport doth call his Rosalind.
Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow,
The vigour and the picture of my youth:
When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport,
But will suspect 'twas he that made the slaughter?
Art thou his father?
Here they rob them and bind them. Exeunt
and the parent, death, dearth, dissolutions of
On equal terms to give him chastisement?
Together with the terror of the place,--
have a coxcomb of frize? 'Tis time I were choked
Sweet honey and sweet notes together fail.
And bade them speak to him: then prophet-like
Shall I? content: this chair shall be my state,
[Aside] It goes on, I see,
will come a time. I never knew a woman so dote upon
Of this yet scarce-cold battle, at this instant
O sir, you are too sure an augurer,
The Tomb of the ANDRONICI appearing, the Tribunes  and Senators aloft. Enter, below, from one side,  SATURNINUS and his Followers, and, from the other side, BASSIANUS and his Followers, with drum and colours
'I go, sir!'--Take the bonds along with you,
The lark, that tirra-lyra chants,
That cannot be, since I am still possess'd
These news I must confess are full of grief,
A thousand complete courses of the sun!
As is appointed us, at Shrewsbury.
Let me hear you speak farther. I have spirit to do
On what submissive message art thou sent?
and an express command, under penalty, to deliver
[Singing]
Springs not from Edward's well-meant honest love,
I have done nothing but in care of thee,
In our own filth drop our clear judgments, make us
man, and signifies love.
world no injury, for in it I have nothing, only in
And may, through all the world: 'tis yours, and we,
To do this deed will hate you for the deed.
That's not my fault: he's master of my state:
We know his handiwork: therefore, good mother,
How courtesy would seem to cover sin,
Thanks, sweet Lavinia. Romans, let us go,
Take leave of thy old master and inquire
Good morrow.
As thoughts do blow them, higher and higher.
what art thou?
The payment of a hundred thousand crowns,
So the proportions of defence are fill'd,
Good words the other day of a bay courser
Soft, sir! one word more.
Dicky your boy, that with his grumbling voice
And use of service, none, contract, succession,
Should have been cherish'd by her child-like duty,
Dyed in his blood unto the shepherd youth
Your wonder: but yet speak, first, you, my liege,
This world I do renounce, and, in your sights,
indeed he was mad for her, and talked of Satan and
Or mangled shalt thou be by this my sword.
No, like a bank for love to lie and play on,
Should so profane the word, that taught me craft
A prince, Miranda, I do think, a king,
In expectation of them. O dear father,
My lord!
Come, bustle, bustle, caparison my horse.
That Ancus Marcius, Numa's daughter's son,
Worthy Sebastian? O, what might?--No more:--
And, this last night, here in Philippi fields:
Fie, fie! no thought of him:
In thy not chiding, for she was as tender
Swift-winged with desire to get a grave,
Even at his father's house, the old Andronicus.
The adulterate Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey,
Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make,
they dare not fight with me, because of the queen my
Treason and murder ever kept together,
Enters the gates
Enter HELENA and Widow
In Margaret's battle at Saint Alban's slain?
Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest, shall
Be bride to you, if you this assurance,
As he being drest to some oration.'
Of the duke's confessor, John de la Car,
I very well agree with you in the hopes of him: it
Is new committed to the Bishop of York,
Speak to the business, master-secretary:
Exit
To call hers exquisite, in question more:
I am not bound to please thee with my answers.
Marry, would the word 'farewell' have lengthen'd hours
I doubt not but his friends will fly to us.
If these be motives weak, break off betimes,
Yes, Pole.
And almost shoulder'd in the swallowing gulf
Inquire at London, 'mongst the taverns there,
Write them together, yours is as fair a name,
And cannot live but to thy shame, unless
Threaten his bloody stage: by the clock, 'tis day,
wear thy heart in a scarf!
Add thus much more, that no Italian priest
Where fires thou find'st unraked and hearths unswept,
Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,
As, I confess, it is my nature's plague
He vented them, most narrow measure lent me:
And give some evening music to her ear.
I swear, 'tis better to be lowly born,
With sunken wreck and sunless treasuries.
intellectual armour, they could never wear such heavy
What is the matter here?
Well might they fester 'gainst ingratitude,
The pleasures such a beauty brings with it,
Trouble him not,
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,
here? a man or a fish? dead or alive? A fish:
Stay, or thou diest!
the fellow dares not deceive me.
Come, shall I make you two friends? We must to
That it becomes a virtue.
You! did you?
I thank you, valiant Cassio.
The mortal worm might make the sleep eternal,
in, equivocator.
An amber-colour'd raven was well noted.
Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him?
To 't, luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers.
O Tullus,--
It must needs be of subtle, tender and delicate
So two, together weeping, make one woe.
To him, Patroclus, tell him I humbly desire the
And what a pitch she flew above the rest!
The Volsces have much corn, take these rats thither
Which they upon the adverse party want.
And therefore frame the law unto my will.
it his that finds it.
Lord, how we lose our pains!
That so neglected you.
Exceeds man's might, that dwells with gods above.
Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted
And woes by wrong imaginations lose
We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
to extend him, be it but to fortify her judgment,
And never shall it more be gracious.
Exit
Enter GLOUCESTER
And bid my friend, for joy of this good news,
And they expect it from me.
So be it, either to the uttermost,
Are we undone? cast off? nothing remaining?
Detain no jot, I charge thee: write to him--
His oration to his soldiers
without any malice, but to speak of him as my
My noble lord, from Eastcheap.
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
All levied in my name, have in my name
givest me,
This news was brought to Richard but even now:
I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song.
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA
Mistress, your father prays you leave your books
God amend us, God amend! we are much out o' the way.
And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks
The very minute bids thee ope thine ear,
Fit for a fool to fall by: what cross devil
Now, quiet soul, depart when heaven please,
If we should fail?
To be in anger is impiety,
Falstaff, kind Jack Falstaff, true Jack Falstaff,
Incensed the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures,
Not to be other than one thing, not moving
Then he is dead?
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Give me fresh garments. Mine own, Helicanus,
Such noble scenes as draw the eye to flow,
And widow to Prince Arthur.
I'll keep you company.
By rushing in their houses, bearing thence
They play
ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it
Hie you, Messala,
And spotless shall mine innocence arise,
And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks,
Good captain, will you give me a copy of the sonnet
What! was it you that would be England's king?
Break their talk, Mistress Quickly: my kinsman shall
Or I am much deceived, of Portia.
As I have read, laid claim unto the crown,
you: we coted them on the way, and hither are they
But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,
And when I have my meed, I must away,
And why rail I on this Commodity?
Father, be quiet, he shall stay my leisure.
Good Lord, how like the empress' sons they are!
With urging helpless patience wouldst relieve me,
And I in better state than e'er I was.
What did you whisper in your lady's ear?
Am better than thy dear self's better part.
We will ourselves provide:
Is much more general than these lines import.
To intercept this inconvenience,
drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap
Then to your offices and let me rest.
How does my wife?
'Twould braid yourself too near for me to tell it.
As shall be proved upon you?
O God of battles! steel my soldiers' hearts,
This hideous rashness: answer my life my judgment,
Is her own dower, honour and wealth from me.
No, I will to Ireland to his majesty.
That blabb'd them with such pleasing eloquence,
opened, and you find so much blood in his liver as
Dangerous conceits are, in their natures, poisons.
doctor to such a man.
A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn,
Why, rude companion, whatsoe'er thou be,
I can speak English, lord, as well as you,
Even so void is your false heart of truth.
Of this poor infant, this fresh-new sea-farer,
Lays her full mess before you. Want! why want?
Lest, then, the people, and patricians too,
See you yond coign o' the Capitol, yond
Too slow a messenger.
Worthy Cominius, speak.
Now she is there, how will she specify
You heard what this knave told me, did you not?
nunnery, go.
Why, I tell thee, I care not though he burn himself
Grandpre and Roussi, Fauconberg and Foix,
Well, here he comes.
And the wolf behowls the moon,
She writes so to you, doth she?
Do deeds to make heaven weep, all earth amazed,
Hear from me still, and never of me aught
Threatening the welkin with his big-swoln face?
Yea, but you must not make the full show of this
We would spend it in some words upon that business,
An instrument of this your calling back,
Where learned you this, fool?
For I can take, and Pistol's cock is up,
And let the foes quietly cut their throats,
Then speak at once what is it thou demand'st.
Our fears do make us traitors.
Anon, anon, sir.
And, which is worse, all you have done
That thou shalt see the difference of our spirits,
friends true and constant: a good plot, good
Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old
Or less,--at first?--perchance he spoke not, but,
In Italy, and her confederate arms,
My mistress made it one upon my cheek:
A man no mightier than thyself or me
mightest as well have known all our names as thus to
Here's neither bush nor shrub, to bear off
What cannot be eschew'd must be embraced.
Stop there, stop there.
Wherefore, sweet-heart? what's your metaphor?
Might with a sally of the very town
Your grace?
To these injunctions every one doth swear
Then all too late comes counsel to be heard,
My very character,--I'ld turn it all
'Le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement, et
In sign of truth, I kiss your highness' hand.
That I essentially am not in madness,
Was call'd Belarius.
of my master's horse-tail till they kiss their
the line: now, jerkin, you are like to lose your
A parley sounded. Enter REIGNIER on the walls
Indeed!
Exit
Yea, and of this our life, swearing that we
Into a rapture lets her baby cry
By heaven, I do not, I do not, gentlemen.
Heat me these irons hot, and look thou stand
Music and a song: 'Black spirits,'  and c
approach, and, in her invention and Ford's wife's
The trumpets, sackbuts, psalteries and fifes,
Devouring pestilence hangs in our air
Lackbeard there, he and I shall meet: and, till
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
To gratify his noble service that
A Veronesa, Michael Cassio,
And strike you home without a messenger.
Enter Pyramus and Thisbe, Wall, Moonshine, and Lion
Election makes not up on such conditions.
You always end with a jade's trick: I know you of old.
If there be rule in unity itself,
What, are you hurt, lieutenant?
Wisdom and constancy, hath amazed me more
We are not, sir, nor are we like to be,
In measure rein thy joy, scant this excess.
I will tell truth, by grace itself I swear.
been grievously peaten as an old 'oman: methinks
I have heard!
mistress is a respected woman.
Thy child shall live, and I will see it nourish'd.
He that perforce robs lions of their hearts
Some enigma, some riddle: come, thy l'envoy, begin.
The beauty of this kingdom, I'll assure you.
Must give my tendence to.
And even there, his eye being big with tears,
As ornaments oft do, too dangerous:
Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front,
Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
Not so, but yet so false that he grieves my very
Nay, come, let's go together.
That is done, sir, they have all stomachs.
Lives not to act another. Be satisfied,
Lascivious Edward, and thou perjured George,
with his comfort, swallowed his vows whole,
evidence, therefore stand aside.
It would amaze the proudest of you all.
She, whom the spital-house and ulcerous sores
And be you blithe and bonny,
Because kind nature doth require it so:
Delivering o'er to executors pale
The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet it
I would prolong awhile the traitor's life.
maiden walls that war hath never entered.
cousin: I must say she is dead: and so, farewell.
In all designs begun on earth below
Stay not to answer me, but get thee gone:
I pray thee, hear me speak.
Lo, in this right hand, whose protection
I do, sir.
It would make any man cold to lose.
bonnet unbanded, your sleeve unbuttoned, your shoe
That any harm should stain so fair a show!
Shall darken him for ever.
A better wife, let him in nought be trusted,
Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
a very filthy rogue.
But doth he know that I am in this forest and in
An if he may, then am I lawful king,
Still you keep o' the windy side of the law: good.
With that he call'd the tailor lown.
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
And gives his potent regiment to a trull,
Your fortune stood upon the casket there,
Know you not he has?
distress in my similes of comfort and leave him to
Why, my pretty youth?
confession, learn to begin thy health, but, whilst I
This shows you are above,
Lysander! what, removed? Lysander! lord!
In the delaying death.
I should be arguing still upon that doubt:
I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade
Yes, brother, you may live:
Their mercy at the price of one fair word,
Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
fitted for 't.
Sell me your good report.
Go you, sir, to the senators--
Pours into captains' wounds? Banishment!
Before you serve.
Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
And have no portion in the choice myself.
Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it.
No, no, O Lord, sir, no.
On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour?
Which seem'd to tell them his remembrance lay
Disguise us at my lodging and return,
Awhile to work, and after holiday.
Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity
good quarrel, and the law on my side.
When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
So I were out of prison and kept sheep,
If you will make't an action, call witness to't.
pardonner! Je suis gentilhomme de bonne maison:
I say, my lord, that if I were a man,
gentleman or a yeoman?
Exit DIONYZA
Made me collect these dangers in the duke.
But out of question 'tis Maria's hand.
Read it.
But hope to pluck a dainty doe to ground.
But is four Volsces? none of you but is
So we could find some pattern of our shame.
Madam, a noble gentleman of Rome,
The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo,
Harp on it still shall I till heart-strings break.
Into this abbey, whither we pursued them:
But when we know the grounds and authors of it,
Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister.
Such an immodest raiment, if shame live
I'll die on him that says so but yourself.
which now we'll show 'em in deeds. They say poor
Did look no better to that weighty charge.
That's clapp'd upon the court-gate.
I will not be your friend nor enemy:
deceived in Angelo! If ever he return and I can
Diseases in our bodies: I must perforce
And these few precepts in thy memory
The manner and the purpose of his treason,
To cavil in the course of this contract:
He had not my virginity.
Lest I be laugh'd at when I tell them so.
believing old signs: a' brushes his hat o'
offer them instances, which shall bear no less
Has censured him
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
Nay, then, thou mock'st me. Thou shalt buy this dear,
They have a leader,
With too much riches it confound itself:
Away, my masters! trouble us no more,
Murder indeed, that bloody sin, I tortured
Do it not with poison, strangle her in her bed, even
Something hath been amiss--a noble nature
And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.
And the like tender of our love we make,
For both our sakes, I would that word were true.
'Twere well
When I wore it at your daughter's marriage?
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Negligent student! learn her by heart.
A second time within these arms.
For night-owls shriek where mounting larks
Thy scarlet robes as a child's bearing-cloth
Push! did you see my cap?
Villains, for shame you could not beg for grace.
For they that were your enemies are his,
The least a death to nature.
But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
And less than this, I am sure, you cannot give.
ready to crack with impatience. Who says this is
O, may such purple tears be alway shed
You are a saucy boy: is't so, indeed?
Who was the first of Britain which did put
Bring thou the master to the citadel,
Should drive upon thy new-transformed limbs,
That e'er invention play'd on? tell me why.
In different beds of lust, and never learn'd
Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
Enter Nurse and PETER
A sister I bequeath you, whom no brother
Where it did mark, it took, from face to foot
Hear me one word,
Are now to have no successive degrees,
What art thou that dost grumble there i' the straw?
And made his majesty the bawd to theirs.
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
So think of your estate.
To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born?
SCENE II. The Forum.
will put it, as they say, to fortuna de la guerra.
Some certain of your brethren roar'd and ran
Fears make devils of cherubims, they never see truly.
Her face was to mine eye beyond all wonder,
Where ill men were, and was the best of all
The weary way hath made you melancholy.
SCENE I. LEONATO'S garden.
A retreat sounded
Think not on 't, sir.
Enter MICHAEL
Nay, good my lord,--
Let us haste to hear it,
Sing in our sweet lullaby,
Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home,
of thy body that I am father to, then call me
What seest thou there? King Henry's diadem,
Come hither: pray you,
More than to us
a jealous tyrant, his innocent babe truly begotten,
ever know unthrift that was beloved after his means?
Tut, tut, here is a mannerly forbearance:
Madam, how like you this play?
and perturbation follows her.
And gave him what becomed love I might,
Take I your wish, I leap into the seas,
I nothing but to please his fantasy.
Yes, indeed shall you, and taste gentlemen of all
O ho, O ho! would't had been done!
Where is the king?
Sure, all's effectless, yet nothing we'll omit
What is't for?
To be invested.
great a prince as you are.
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
Alas the heavy day! Why do you weep?
Which I beseech your highness to forgive,
As flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats. I say,
Nor shall this peace sleep with her: but as when
But now he parted hence, to embark for Milan.
Call Philostrate.
And there they hull, expecting but the aid
valiant Jack Falstaff, and therefore more valiant,
Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt:
Advancing
Which now, two tender playfellows to dust,
Sirs, what's o'clock?
'	Then, howso'er thou speak'st, 'mong other things
Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
A murderer and a villain,
O, well did he become that lion's robe
I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
That justly think'st, and hast most rightly said!
And thus he would: Open your city gates,
Exit
accusation.
For pity is the virtue of the law,
Come, mistress Kate, I'll bear you company.
[Aside to ARIEL]  Bravely, my diligence. Thou shalt be free.
Swear me to this, and I will ne'er say no.
him, SURREY, bearing the rod of silver with
I'll take thy word for faith, not ask thine oath:
She that in wisdom never was so frail
You would be fingering them, to anger me.
See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps.
One seven-night longer.
Where be these knaves? What, no man at door
Remembering how I love thy company.
Thou speak'st with all thy wit: and yet, i' faith,
You are mine enemy, and make my challenge
of Hero's disloyalty that jealousy shall be called
Go sleep, and hear us.
Gracious sovereign,
'Tis an unseason'd courtier, good my lord,
Proclaim him in the streets, incense her kinsmen,
To points that seem impossible, for thou look'st
And lack of temper'd judgment afterward.
Scorn now their hand should give them burial.
Enter a Courtezan
With other graces weigh'd.
Figured quite o'er with burning meteors.
My head with more ill news, for it is full.
the letter, for the nomination of the party writing
Too well what love women to men may owe:
And she goes down at twelve.
Two mightier troops than that the Dauphin led,
I shall do well:
Ay, night by night, in studying good for England,
When usurers tell their gold i' the field,
It is concluded. Banquo, thy soul's flight,
The vasty fields of France? or may we cram
Peace, I say!
[Aside]  To be whipped, and yet a better love than
here but to thrash Trojans, and thou art bought and
What was that Hopkins?
Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel,
To leave the city and commit yourself
Give me that hand of yours to kiss.
And her withholds from me and other more,
It is the worst, and all, my lord, he writes.
rough things.
On pain of death, no person be so bold
Well, sir, as you guess, as you guess?
That this shall be, or we will fall for it?
But rather lose her to an African,
A blank, my lord. She never told her love,
The greater part, the horse in general,
Now, by my mother's son, and that's myself,
That men must lay their murders on your neck.
They do not go together.
Like Muscovites or Russians, as I guess.
Discourse, I prithee, on this turret's top.
his majesty, out of a self-gracious remembrance, did
Exit
as you would say, a cobbler.
Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.
Our great self and our credit, to esteem
loves, and, I am proud, say, that my occasions have
What, thou meanest an officer?
As heavens forefend!--your ruin, marry her,
The practise and the purpose of the king:
I am not partial to infringe our laws:
faith and my heart of steel,
raw rheumatic day!
weeping tears 'Wear these for my sake.' We that are
Farewell. Come hither to me.
Why, sir, he comes not.
Collected for this expedition.
Flourish of trumpets: then hautboys. Enter KING  HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and  CARDINAL, on the one side, QUEEN MARGARET, SUFFOLK, YORK, SOMERSET, and BUCKINGHAM, on the other
More fond on her than she upon her love:
blank verse, why, they were never so truly turned
he abides.
And I to this.
As when his god is pleased.
You saw
Outsells them all, I love her therefore: but
church, and have a good priest that can tell you
For we do fear the law? What company
Better than he, why, give my horse to Timon,
Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus,
Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen,
tongues into those wounds and speak for them, so, if
Madam, he swore that he did hold me dear
This, in our foresaid holy father's name,
I embrace it freely,
Exit
For they do prank them in authority,
Betwixt ourselves let us decide it then.
God match me with a good dancer!
How say'st thou, Charles? shall our condition stand?
I'll not put
I left out one thing which the queen confess'd.
inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles, for every
But He, that hath the steerage of my course,
Alas my friend and my dear countryman
Is my dear son with such sour company:
The violation of my faith, and then
To have a temple built you: all the swords
Prosperity be thy page!
Your daughter and her cousin much commend
A s mine is to him?
Of other men's secrets, I beseech you.
But in this changing what is your intent?
Bless thy five wits!
about Signior Leonato's door, for the wedding being
To the ensuing age abhorr'd.' Speak to me, son:
He came too late, the ship was under sail:
And, her attendants absent, swallow'd fire.
O, I could hew up rocks and fight with flint,
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And nobles bearing banners, there lie dead
It serves you well, my lord, to say so much.
Most valour, spoke not for them: the accusation
Did not I tell thee yea? hadst thou not order?
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
I do beseech your grace,
Made him a man, and though thou livest and breathest,
Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
I would my husband would meet him in this shape: he
God mend all!
What follows this?
can do you little harm, you'll forswear this again.
I would adventure for such merchandise.
A miserable by the death of him
From year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes,
I am a rogue, if I were not at half-sword with a
At knowing of thy choice.
hide him. O, how have you deceived me! Look, here
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CROMWELL
Which pries not to the interior, but, like the martlet,
A clip-wing'd griffin and a moulten raven,
And it hath pleased him that three times to-day
Exit
He doth appear.
Hath, for a few light crowns, lightly conspired,
I shall continue thankful.
I have: but what of him?
Exit
And thou unfit for any place but hell.
Trail'st thou the puissant pike?
To an unsettled fancy cure thy brains,
Of malady of France,
her in yellow stockings, and 'tis a colour she
Saw you Aufidius?
Hath beat down Menon: bastard Margarelon
I am resolved that thou shalt spend some time
Why, is not Oxford here another anchor?
That must we also. What it is, my Caius,
In kissing, do you render or receive?
this shrill addition, 'Anon, anon, sir! Score a pint
her husband.
King'd of our fears, until our fears, resolved,
meantime, good Signior Benedick, repair to
occasion to use me for your own turn, you shall find
And still, as you are weary of the weight,
could not be else: I have drunk medicines. Poins!
Nothing in love: now does he feel his title
The end of this day's business ere it come!
That strumpet Fortune, that usurping John!
Will you go?
That seest a game play'd home, the rich stake drawn,
the house.
And generally to the crown and seat of France
Hail, king! for so thou art: behold, where stands
'Tis true, for Friar Laurence met them both,
But send me Flavius first.
a postmaster's boy.
Exit
Besides, virginity is peevish, proud, idle, made of
And let him ply his music.
Shall be the maws of kites.
For let the gods so speed me as I love
If I court moe women, you'll couch with moe men!
As I come out: this action I now go on
the right!
What should I say to you? Should I not say
'Tis a good constraint of fortune it belches upon us.
How show'd his tasking? seem'd it in contempt?
Hark, how Troy roars! how Hecuba cries out!
out for him: I frown the while, and perchance wind
Enter GONERIL, and OSWALD, her steward
To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse!
Even this.
With that harsh, noble, simple nothing,
the provost.
To answer 'I'll not wed, I cannot love,
'Sblood! an arrant traitor as any is in the
And therefore comes my brother Montague.
Such a fellow is not to be talked withal. Away with
Enter the Ghosts of RIVERS, GRAY, and VAUGHAN
Upon our soldiers, we will retire to Calais.
For many years thought dead, are now revived,
O weary reckoning!
But, lest myself be guilty to self-wrong,
Of his most sovereign name, consider little
The severals and unhidden passages
Hath wrought this hellish mischief unawares,
Britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.'
Give him much wrong'd.
but now promise, Kate, you will endeavour for your
The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive
How now! what means this, herald? know'st thou not
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
I think my husband hath some special suspicion of
If you were born to honour, show it now,
ACT II
That do acknowledge Caesar, should I find them
I have seen, as that diamond of yours outlustres
Not yet enjoy'd: so tedious is this day
supper to-morrow night in Eastcheap: we may do it
This seen, Orlando did approach the man
No, I warrant you, he will not hear of godliness.
when you find him out, you have him ever after.
The son and heir to that same Faulconbridge.
That, sir, which I will not report after her.
to marriage which they will climb incontinent, or
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Enter one with water
Falls in
Excellent, madame!
Her ashes, in an urn more precious
Follow me close, I'll bring you to't. Adieu.
When he hath mused of taking kingdoms in,
Petruchio, stand by a while.
That you start at it? I say, I am your mother,
In monumental mockery. Take the instant way,
I seal upon the lips of this sweet babe.
Could fetch your brother from the manacles
If I would time expend with such a snipe.
No, my good lord, for that is not forgot
Enter ROMEO
hope to come upon them in the heat of their division.
On that which breeds between 'em!
Proceed.
Or like an overcharged gun, recoil,
Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
He does me double wrong
He is all the mother's, from the top to toe.
Exeunt
It was ourself thou didst abuse.
Matter against me, and his eye reviled
To brave the tribune in his brother's hearing.
To courtship and such fair ostents of love
By an Athenian eunuch to the harp.'
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
Resign'd the crown to Henry the Fourth,
Runs his erring pilgrimage,
For in the fatness of these pursy times
I was seen with her in the manor-house, sitting with
My master's enemy.
His lecture will be done ere you have tuned.
Is there no remedy?
warn us!--matter, the cleanliest shift is to kiss.
There's strange news come, sir.
Are those my tents where I perceive the fire?
There's none stands under more calumnious tongues
Peace! stand aside: the company parts.
Nor shall it, Harry, for the hour is come
services thou hast done, which if I have not enough
Got my lord chamberlain his liberty.
Doubting thy birth and lawful progeny.
Of the king's look's, hath a heart that is not
SCENE IV. The same.
Say ay, and be the captain of us all:
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
So the boy Love is perjured every where:
appearing what we are, have some question with the
your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my
And grapple thee unto a pagan shore,
exercises than formerly he hath appeared.
jangling of the bells, that he should never have
Be avised, sir, and pass good humours: I will say
But for our trusty brother-in-law and the abbot,
You that are blamed for it alike with us,
That cannot choose but amaze him.
That could be moved to smile at any thing.
For instant remedy: be then desired
I am sorry, then, you have so lost a father
Who joint'st thou with but with a lordly nation
How yet resolves the governor of the town?
That you stand forfeit, being those that sue?
And counsel him to fight against his passion.
Mark your divorce, young sir,
Enter PROTEUS, SILVIA, and JULIA
ourselves to an unknown fear.
give express charge, that in our marches through the
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
The generous and gravest citizens
It is great morning, and the hour prefix'd
I pray thee, sort thy heart to patience,
Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp,
Think on Lord Hastings: despair, and die!
It hath already publicly been read,
Under your sentence?
He lies not like the living. O my heart!
If she be in her chamber or your house,
To LAERTES
Follow, my lord, and I'll soon bring her back.
Or image of that horror?
Nor I.
Ay, marry, is't.
I will perform it to enfranchise you.
Do light upon her, she shall bring him that
I'll give him reasons for't: hie thee, Malvolio.
And I, the hapless male to one sweet bird,
Here, boys, here, here! shall we wag?
My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
call me so.
Exeunt BENEDICK and LEONATO
Whom I will marry straight to Clarence' daughter:
So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does:
The king hath sent him, sure: I must dissemble.
He? alas, he is poor, he hath nothing.
But, my good lord,--
On one part and on the other? Take it, God,
Ha, ha! are you honest?
Sir, it is
Where he himself was lost, Prospero his dukedom
Whom we have apprehended in the fact,
O, sir, your presence is too bold and peremptory,
Not any yet:
And I for such like petty crimes as these,
Even he that did uphold the very life
desire to live.
Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen
The statue is but newly fix'd, the colour's Not dry.
'Tis more than need.
And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,
him, draw, and, as thou drawest swear horrible, for
Haste thee, for thy life.
My foolish rival, that her father likes
Whilst I was big in clamour came there in a man,
that my report: you, indeed, spoke so of him, and
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
'Twas merry when
Thy hateful life.
Who know the world, see heaven, but, feeling woe,
maids are May when they are maids, but the sky
I am far better born than is the king,
See, how they kiss and court! Signior Lucentio,
I pray you, pardon me, I cannot speak.
What is thy sentence then but speechless death,
No,
In time we hate that which we often fear.
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
O fool! fool! fool!
And therefore, setting all this chat aside,
Enjoy your mistress, from the whom, I see,
You will, chops?
Of Charles the Great. Also King Lewis the Tenth,
I shall digest it.
will mow all down before him, and leave his passage polled.
Nor are they living
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
Exeunt
For who digs hills because they do aspire
When came he to this town?
Attend the true event, and put we on
In sleep I heard him say 'Sweet Desdemona,
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet, these words
Nor to one place, nor is my whole estate
Will play the cook and servant, 'tis our match:
Or else my sword with an unbatter'd edge
The scars upon your honour, therefore, he
A carbuncle entire, as big as thou art,
The duke knows him for no other but a poor officer
To high promotions and great dignity:
No, madam, for so long
O, bless me here with thy victorious hand,
By all the duties that I owe to Rome,
Pulling clothes out of the basket
He being her pupil, to become her tutor.
Now, how dost thou look now? O ill-starr'd wench!
Be these sad signs confirmers of thy words?
Exit
O, the fierce wretchedness that glory brings us!
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
Enter ANTIOCHUS, Prince PERICLES, and followers
This is the most despiteful gentle greeting,
I'll trust, by leisure, him that mocks me once,
And she is fair, and, fairer than that word,
So easily open?
Walking from watch to watch, from tent to tent,
imposition: oft got without merit, and lost without
Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ:
Enter SIR ANDREW, SIR TOBY BELCH, and FABIAN
if something thou wilt swear to be believed,
I'll give but notice you are dead and send him
And now you should be as your mother was
The sum is paid, the traitors are agreed,
Most hungerly on your sight.
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, when
And I take him to be valiant.
Who is that that spake?
SCENE II. The forest.
Knocking within
No more.
And let him find it. Trifles light as air
Enter Thisbe
Set down, set down your honourable load,
The commons here in Kent are up in arms:
So to the Moor.
How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his sides,
Well, sir.
Mine, Hal, mine.
It is your grace's pleasure to commend,
From top to toe?
Arm, arm, my lord, the foe vaunts in the field.
So worthless peasants bargain for their wives,
Even then will rush to knowledge. Go: fresh horses!
not worthy to touch Fortune's fingers. Farewell.
Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung.
Come unto these yellow sands,
Strike all that look upon with marvel. Come,
And the nobility of Rome are his:
I'll help you, Sir Toby, because well be dressed together.
But these cannot I command to any utterance of
In countenance somewhat doth resemble you.
And here remain with your uncertainty!
Will we take throughly.
Or swear before you choose, if you choose wrong
Whose violent property fordoes itself
the hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Out
Cry.
Which of a weak or niggardly projection
This is all:
Madam, so thrive I in my enterprise
Was our sea-fight, and what to this was sequent
railed at herself, that she should be so immodest
Lie further off, in human modesty,
Hear me, hear me what I say: he that strikes the
Adventure to be banished myself:
Re-enter ARIEL, loaden with glistering apparel,  and c
Good now, some excellent fortune! Let me be married
and will she love him still for prating? let not
Re-enter BARDOLPH with sack
That, to deserve well at my brother's hands,
Exit SIR HUGH EVANS
Will not sustain it.
We but offend him. Strike!
How bravely thou becomest thy bed, fresh lily,
Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
That beauty am I bless'd with which you see.
house, he cannot 'scape me, 'tis impossible he
Only for praise: and praise we may afford
To lose an oath to win a paradise?
And made a brine-pit with our bitter tears?
sufficient. Three thousand ducats, I think I may
This devil here shall be my substitute,
Most royal sir,
believed, so, if not, let them that should reward
God will revenge it. But come, let us in,
Upon the which, that every one may read,
To bear such idleness so near the heart
Heir to the crown?
An she agree, within her scope of choice
Alas, look here, my lord.
At your den, sirrah, with your lioness
Madam, I go with all convenient speed.
The doctor is well money'd, and his friends
Small curs are not regarded when they grin,
The ministration and required office
For present parting, only he desires
But I, for mere suspicion in that kind,
Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight.
Nor once be chastised with the sober eye
Of any kindred action like to this?
Exeunt Pyramus and Thisbe
The main blaze of it is past, but a small thing
It was commanded so.
no more words.
To wait upon this new-made empress.
war, and in the derivation of my birth, and in
In their applauding gates.
Behoves me keep at utterance. I am perfect
Better do so than tarry and be hang'd.
Pardon me, princely Henry, and the rest
So much as of a thought of ill in him.
To be protector of his excellence?
To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
When back again this ring shall be deliver'd:
And change your favours too, so shall your loves
Or been reguerdon'd with so much as thanks,
May do much danger. Friar John, go hence,
that I have a kind of alacrity in sinking, if the
Thy lord, Thersites: then tell me, I pray thee,
you strange news that you yet dreamt not of.
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious,
The creatures that were mine, I say, or changed 'em,
the daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us,
Titania, music call, and strike more dead
My favour were as great, be witness this.
I will not yield,
Shall keep us both the safer: where we are,
Pardon me, pardon me.
But in the balance of great Bolingbroke,
Park about midnight, at Herne's oak, and you shall
Exeunt
An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!
Let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart
No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is
Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
Pray, uncle Gloucester, mitigate this strife.
Not the king's crown, nor the deputed sword,
That rends the thorns and is rent with the thorns,
Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters' blessing:
With my vex'd spirits I cannot take a truce,
And I, in such a desperate bay of death,
the pudding in his belly, that reverend vice, that
And in the closing of some glorious day
Some true love turn'd and not a false turn'd true.
Than twenty times the value of the sum
There's little of the melancholy element in her, my
nearer to his reverence.
Let's do so. But he sleeps.
I come to know what prisoners thou hast ta'en
Whose eye beck'd forth my wars, and call'd them home,
For it must seem their guilt.
Olivia sleeping,--
I know my remedy, I must go fetch the
To monarchize, be fear'd and kill with looks,
Methinks already in this civil broil
My clouted brogues from off my feet, whose rudeness
It will not be accepted, on my life:
'Thou shalt not steal'?
To base declension and loathed bigamy
Let your highness
Is not to stir without great argument,
An if my face were but as fair as yours,
her, rather than she will bate one breath of her
When, for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part,
Stand!
Believe me, I had rather have lost my purse
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
Far from this country Pindarus shall run,
[Aside]            All the better: may
Welcome, brave earl, into our territories:
After they heard young Arthur was alive?
I take your offer and will live with you,
Do so, we'll speak to them, and to-night I'll force
Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidame,
Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
And three examples of the like have been
From worthy Edward, King of Albion,
Come, to the forge with it then, shape it: I would
For notes of sorrow out of tune are worse
Your husband's coming hither, woman, with all the
To be the dowry of a second head,
For 'tis most dangerous.
What, did my father's godson seek your life?
What said he?
The day shall not be up so soon as I,
Win me and wear me, let him answer me.
The peace of England and our persons' safety,
To encounter me with orisons, for then
And mercy then will breathe within your lips,
I will bestow some precepts of this virgin
And make a dearth in this revolting land.
O Antony!
Stood on the extremest verge of the swift brook,
That silk will I go buy.
laugh at my wife, that now laughs at thee: tell her
but if she be less than an honest woman, she is
And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
honourable gentleman. Good Servilius, will you
Say I will come.
This is a gentle provost: seldom when
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,
cannot play upon me.
Out o' tune, sir: ye lie. Art any more than a
But lend it rather to thine enemy,
The worst is this, that, at so slender warning,
were one. I would we were all of one mind, and one
And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp
Your servant, and Costard.
Exeunt
Great king,
What you require of him? for he partly begs
worthiness.
This siren, that will charm Rome's Saturnine,
I am with child, ye bloody homicides:
'Tis certain, then, for Cyprus.
O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!
When I behold--Seyton, I say!--This push
To see what this child does, and praise my Maker.
Her new-built virtue and obedience.
A table set out. Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and Lords like outlaws
Where is our daughter? She hath not appear'd
or her 'budget?' the white will decipher her well
An old hare hoar,
My bounties upon you.
O wretched villain!
Enter BIONDELLO
In us, that are our own great deputy
Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes
What,
companions, is all ready, and all things neat?
In my school-days, when I had lost one shaft,
excelled many: but I have not seen the most
To speak and purpose not, since what I well intend,
Give us the swords, we have bucklers of our own.
Enter PORTIA, dressed like a doctor of laws
him. Close, in the name of jesting! Lie thou there,
By the Athenian garment be had on?
Praise her but for this her without-door form,
One noble man that hath one spark of fire,
'Tis the cardinal,
Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
Till they had stol'n our jewel. All's but naught,
The son, the husband and the father tearing
His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,
To-morrow, then, I judge a happy day.
Hope I may choose, sir.
Weigh them, it is as heavy, conjure with 'em,
Ay me! what is this world! what news are these!
Our strength is all gone into heaviness,
His heart, like an agate, with your print impress'd,
But that our honours must not. What's to say?
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
The famed Cassibelan, who was once at point--
Against the old kind king, or something deeper,
Of threescore and two years, a silly time
Lodged in the abbey, where the reverend abbot,
I'll to the Tower with all the haste I can,
And so in this, to bear me down with braves.
speech, enter into that brake: and so every one
Lash hence these overweening rags of France,
This is most certain that I shall deliver:
The earth had not a hole to hide this deed.
Upon a lie seven times removed:--bear your body more
DON
Condemns you to the death. See them deliver'd over
Liar and slave!
Sings
Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
Ay, for fault of a better.
Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
Audacious cruelty. If that the king
'Let not your sorrow die, though I am dead.'
only his gift is in devising impossible slanders:
Sir Thomas Gargrave, and Sir William Glansdale,
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off
Single you thither then this dainty doe,
And gentlemen of blood and quality.
Why, what a madcap hath heaven lent us here!
I pray you, tell Signior Lucentio that his father is
I give to both your speeches, which were such
Exeunt
Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
While it doth study to have what it would
I will desire you to live in the mean time, and eat
away with the rest.
Juno but an Ethiope were,
And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here,
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
His heart-struck injuries.
O, loving uncle, kind Duke of Gloucester,
Thou factious Duke of York, descend my throne,
The effect and it! Come to my woman's breasts,
But none of 'em can be found. Stand! who's there?
company to-night?
O Seigneur Dieu, je m'en oublie! de elbow. Comment
sound, upon my life, amounts not to fifteen thousand
To charge me to an answer, as the pope.
I humbly thank his grace, and from these shoulders,
And tender preservation of our person,
Meet me i' the morning: thither he
Enter Page
Of his behavior.
Why then, we did our main opinion crush
We are convented
Upon faint primrose-beds were wont to lie,
I see I cannot get thy father's love,
And then return to us.
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Nay, take them.
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
Savagely slaughter'd: to relate the manner,
And then return and sleep within mine inn,
And while I pause, serve in your harmony.
To weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain,
subject, makes old hearts fresh: they that went on
For some new honours that are heap'd on Caesar.
With his sword drawn, foam'd at the mouth, and swore,
Enter a Messenger
That with such vehemency he should pursue
Hath made me full of sickness and diseases.
I'll see your grace: till then I'll follow her.
Go, play, boy, play: thy mother plays, and I
And make a dark night too of half the day--
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
My lord?
Was he angry?
See, noble Charles, the beacon of our friend,
that time, and some say knives have edges. It must
love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
Exeunt
Why this should be. I therefore vouch again
Ha! I have said. Be gone. What!
With his own bolt, the strong-based promontory
by the moon. As, for proof, now: a purse of gold
Desires to be admitted to your presence.
all our misery.
And reason flies the object of all harm:
Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO, and two or three others
I do not strain at the position,--
Why, Harry, do I tell thee of my foes,
I am not treacherous.
According to his virtue let us use him,
Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be king.
pageant there is presented no monster.
How now, Cassio!
That you will clear yourself from all suspect:
Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.
Our holy purpose to Jerusalem.
beggar wont her brat, and, I think when he hath
Whose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar's or mine?
That malice was a great and grievous sin,
To send such peevish tokens to a king.
Cannot contain their urine: for affection,
Made it for me, sir! I bespoke it not.
My brain more busy than the labouring spider
melancholy out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs.
Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back,
estate, 'twere not amiss to keep our door hatched.
Enter the Ghost of CLARENCE
Heavily, heavily.
I have some wounds upon me, and they smart
Be brooch'd with me, if knife, drugs,
ANTIPHOLUS
Here come the lords.
How now, Master Fenton!
Shake in and out the rivet: and at this sport
Swear me, Kate, like a lady as thou art,
A private whisper, no, not with such friends
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
That Henry liveth still: but were he dead,
Were still at odds, being but three.
Enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS
to come unarmed to my tent, and to procure
I cannot think you are my son.
Calmly, I do beseech you.
thee, Orlando, for my husband: there's a girl goes
That westward rooteth from the city's side,
To laughter, as I take it,
The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me,
That I have given no answer all this while,
We'll wait upon you.
To prove upon thy heart, whereto I speak,
Steals ere we can effect them. You remember
But mark, poor knight,
Aside
By what observance, I pray you?
To his full height. On, on, you noblest English.
Ay, my lord,
To our solemnity: I trust we shall,
Lingering perdition, worse than any death
Is that you reconcile them: while the Volsces
him: if the devil have him not in fee-simple, with
Your loss is as yourself, great, and you bear it
How far your eyes may pierce I can not tell:
Here's another ballad of a fish, that appeared upon
The noise was here. Ha! no more moving?
As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows,
To make a stale of me amongst these mates?
Who find in my exile the want of breeding,
Pray heartily he be at palace.
A murder, which I thought a sacrifice:
I will not leave him now till Cassio
Well, there's for you: leave us.
Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,
There is Aufidius, list, what work he makes
When but in all I was six thousand strong
Had he been slaughter-man to all my kin,
Still close as sure.
us, here is that gold I have: I'll make it as much
Were our tears wanting to this funeral,
Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
Is husband in my mouth! even for that name,
'how many hast thou killed to-day?' 'Give my roan
into more work. But, indeed, sir, we make holiday,
I go, my lord.
Call all his noble captains to my lord.
Unmerciful lady as you are, I'm none.
If lusty love should go in quest of beauty,
For judgment only doth belong to thee.
This Caesar was a tyrant.
I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause? Adultery?
We banish thee for ever.
Upon my soul, a lie, a wicked lie.
Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous.
A short alarum within
Citing my worthless praise: O, pardon me,
Then I, and you, and all of us fell down,
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
Which since have steaded much, so, of his gentleness,
Are you a married man or a bachelor?
'Tis you must dig with mattock and with spade,
But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow
and so near will I be,
But stay the very riping of the time,
Like a great sea-mark, standing every flaw,
My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns:
is't not? Why, this is brave now. Who said he came
But cried 'Good seaman!' to the sailors, galling
Warm and new kill'd.
A kinder gentleman treads not the earth.
Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
reverend youth, and I praise God for you.
One good woman in ten, madam, which is a purifying
Which craves as desperate an execution.
Shall witness live in brass of this day's work:
Exit
Men were deceivers ever,
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Madam, good hope, his grace speaks cheerfully.
Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
Of all the faults beneath the heavens, the gods
Exit
Stand, ho!
'Tis woful.
Unfriended, new-adopted to our hate,
Take pity of your town and of your people,
Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou livest,
SCENE V. Another room in LEONATO'S house.
Well done, my lord.
foolish-hanging of thy nether lip, that doth warrant
For barbarous and unnatural revolts
in buckram that I told thee of--
Thou hast said enough.
Strike not by land, keep whole: provoke not battle,
And in my heart the strong and swelling evil
An honest tale speeds best being plainly told.
Frown on, you heavens, effect your rage with speed!
Farewell the plumed troop, and the big wars,
such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that
Et tu, Brute! Then fall, Caesar.
When I do tell thee, there my hopes lie drown'd,
Withdraw thee, Valentine: who's this comes here?
'Twas very Cloten.
He met me on the mart, and that I beat him,
Suggestions are to other as to me,
Aside
As near as I could sift him on that argument,
Well then, your bond, and let me see, but hear you,
The valiant Duke of Bedford. Come, my lord,
out ere he come?
To be full like me: yet they say we are
What's that?
Out, tawny coats! out, scarlet hypocrite!
As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him:
the streets,
Produce his body to the market-place,
Shylock, there's thrice thy money offer'd thee.
Alone, in company, still my care hath been
You know no more than others, but you frame
When simpleness and duty tender it.
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
therefore the sadness is without limit.
very strangler of their amity: Octavia is of a
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
Had I the power that some say Dian had,
Sir,
Then pardon him, sweet father, for my sake.
You scorn: believe me, 'twere best I did give o'er.
There is not so much left, to furnish out
The people liberal, valiant, active, wealthy,
It rejoices me, that I hope I shall see him ere I
And as for these whose ransom we have set,
Exit
birth-day, and there are princes and knights come
Rise from thy stool.
I should have given him tears unto entreaties,
Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
Now, Lovell, from the queen what is the news?
You spotted snakes with double tongue,
'Tis more than you deserve,
Where's Bohemia? speak.
Is she not a fair creature?
Lady, wherefore talk you so?
You are their heir, you sit upon their throne,
Sailors, my lord, they say, I saw them not:
With that she's big with, for 'tis Polixenes
or end: well, Troilus, well: I would my heart were
Your master's mistress.
I have the placing of the British crown.
More venturous or desperate than this.
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
Maud, Bridget, Marian, Cicel, Gillian, Ginn!
The more my fault
To do my duty to my sovereign:
you to Lord Timon's.
The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.
Until that act of parliament be repeal'd
Such attribution should the Douglas have,
The ancient saying is no heresy,
affection to congratulate the princess at her
Go get thee gone, fetch me an iron crow.
There.
Enter CRANMER
Ay, a tailor, sir: a stone-cutter or painter could
Goose, if I had you upon Sarum plain,
Exeunt
And, as the long divorce of steel falls on me,
will, for good things should be praised.
it will, if he shake his tail and say nothing, it will.
When have I injured thee? when done thee wrong?
Sir, my good friend, I'll change that name with you:
But not the form of what he should attend.
Their bodies to the lust of English youth
As Hector pleases.
The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham's bosom,
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
the flowers of Troy, I can tell you: but mark
Last night she slept not, nor to-night she shall not,
gives way to loyalty, something fears me to think
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
For further life in this world I ne'er hope,
He has done my office: I know not if't be true,
shall be any further afflicted, we two will still be
Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA and CORIN
Beating him
Canst thou so daff me? Thou hast kill'd my child:
Hercules' labours, which is, to bring Signior
For never anything can be amiss,
Most worthy gentleman, I and my friend
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
live, the rest shall keep as they are. To a
Sleeps. IACHIMO comes from the trunk
If heaven have any grievous plague in store
transformation!
Benedictus! why Benedictus? you have some moral in
Dies
And being but a toy, which is no grief to give.
I'll answer thee in any fair degree,
Those twins Of learning that he raised in you,
That glues my lips and will not let me speak.
Knocks
Though forfeiters you cast in prison, yet
How now, sirrah?
My doe with the black scut! Let the sky rain
you shall be a woodmonger, and buy nothing of me but
Ay, but not mine own desire.
name the several colours we do wear. Sight may
Let Henry fret and all the world repine.
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee
Exeunt
What, think You we are Turks or infidels?
Tie leaden pounds to's heels. Proceed by process,
I do beseech you, pardon me, I may not show it.
Start not, her actions shall be holy as
Behold their quarter'd fires, have both their eyes
Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours
I kiss these fingers for eternal peace,
under it, QUEEN ANNE in her robe, in her hair
To love the Moor.
Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
Truly, an honest gentleman: but Anne loves him not,
a part of the thousandth part of a minute in the
I do not talk much.
What do ye talk?
Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
Let my master in, Luce.
But tell me, keeper, will my nephew come?
Or, if I live, is it not very like,
And told thee to what purpose and what end.
We hear not of him, neither need we fear him,
In having known no travel in his youth.
Varro and Claudius!
ACT II
Is only bitter to him, only dying,
Where it perceives it is but faintly borne.
Upon the wild sea banks and waft her love
Be not amazed, there's nothing hid from me:
He did not call, he's busy in the paper.
Worse and worse, mistress, she has here spoken holy
And yet no day without a deed to crown it.
That they may fairly note this act of mine!
That I have worn so many winters out,
To entreat your majesty to visit him.
Out, you rogue! you pluck my foot awry:
And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
to me in the orchard.
But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
As brings a thousand-fold more care to keep
Pardon me, good father, it is against my oath.
Who is the suitor? who is the suitor?
For, ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues,
From all direction, purpose, course, intent:
I tell you? Sir Toby, my lady prays you to have a
Then, Brutus, I have much mistook your passion,
Both what by sea and land I can be able
Distinguish him from others, he did keep
Hast thou not worldly pleasure at command,
Our friends at least.
I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.
How canst thou part sadness and melancholy, my
But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
Or I shall show the cinders of my spirits
Ay, and mine,
Rome and her rats are at the point of battle,
Sir,
I do lament the sickness of the king.
Yet, by reputing of his high descent,
The obligation of our blood forbids
yourself that which I am sure you do not know, or
Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike,
And there will we abide. I do desire you
Laying down the child
That we our largest bounty may extend
You have made me offer
Gracious triumpher in the eyes of Rome!
Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you?
Who's there? What is't you seek?
When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets.
Unless you were of gentler, milder mould.
And as his father here was conqueror,
No, Antony,
Strangers in court do take her for the queen:
unexperienced to thy grave.
There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here,
Like urchins, ouphes and fairies, green and white,
He shent our messengers, and we lay by
His jest will savour but of shallow wit,
If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
That all the abhorred things o' the earth amend
self? It were, my lord, a hard condition for a maid
Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last.
No, in good troth, Bianca.
you, O the dearest of creatures, would even renew me
now, come apace to the king: there is more good
You were not bid to speak.
And how you find of her.
Gave me my being and my father first,
To take their rooms, ere I can place myself:
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
That leads him to these places: were I his lady,
I will drop in his way some obscure epistles of
And call them meteors, prodigies and signs,
Whither I go, nor reason whereabout:
you, four and twenty pound.
what I am willing to keep in, therefore it charges
To me and to the state of my great grief
bears will not bite one another when they meet.
That he that breaks a stick of Gloucester's grove
Enter HORNER, the Armourer, and his man PETER, guarded
There is my gage, Aumerle, in gage to thine:
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
I had forgot thee: O, come in, Emilia,
Where is the gentleman that was with her?
On Thursday next be married to this county.
Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
Re-enter Clown and Shepherd
Here comes the man, sir, that did rescue me.
Than hope enjoy'd: by this the weary lords
Do, good my lord, your citizens entreat you.
To Edmund earl of Gloucester, seek him out
He were created knight for his good service.
Our lock'd embrasures, strangles our dear vows
Whose life were ill bestow'd or death unfamed
My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
The barge she sat in, like a burnish'd throne,
the tune of 'Two maids wooing a man:' there's
They never then had sprung like summer flies,
Should conquer Antony, but woe 'tis so!
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
Lay me stark naked, and let the water-flies
And I have bred her at my dearest cost
And we in them no hope to win the day,
She's well, but bade me not commend her to you.
Since I can reason of it. Pray you, trust me here:
Who all this while hath revell'd in the night
The cause why I have brought this army hither
Nay, would I were so anger'd with the same!
He sought to murder: but her better stars
You fur your gloves with reason. Here are
Out of our virtues, who miscarrying,
Weep, wretched man, I'll aid thee tear for tear,
Antony offer him a crown,--yet 'twas not a crown
Will thither straight, for willingness rids way,
And awful rule and right supremacy,
Call Coriolanus.
How your state stands i' the world, with the whole world?
Sir, even now
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
three days his head to be chopped off.
canon. Keep it not, you cannot choose but loose
Caesar, my lord?
To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps,
While you here do snoring lie,
From jealousy!
Bid our commanders lead their charges off
O Goneril!
Enough of this, I pray thee, hold thy peace.
I was directed hither: men report
bots, swayed in the back and shoulder-shotten,
tell me who it is.
Should solder up the rift.
I do remember it, and here take my leave,
The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
Beside, his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower,
Or if you cannot weep, yet give some groans,
Exit
Will you walk in to see their gossiping?
Servilius! you are kindly met, sir. Fare thee well:
much like a cheese, consumes itself to the very
Thanks, Reignier, happy for so sweet a child,
We come not by the way of accusation,
Most heathenish and most gross!
chooses you, will, no doubt, never be chosen by any
and so I shall catch the fly, your cousin, in the
My father's death--
Commends his good opinion of you, and
For speaking false in that: thou art, alone,
but in honest, civil, godly company, for this trick:
Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
I am thankful to you, and I'll go along
To-morrow I intend to hunt again.
And in a captive chariot into Rouen
The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself,
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
her face and so disfigure her with it that she
Will I? i'faith, that we will, and I will tell your
Then lead the way, good father, and heavens so shine,
And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour,
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
Why didst thou stoop, then?
And that a strange one too, which did awake me:
thou, Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and
That hast within thee undivulged crimes,
Tearing the letter
put me into this apparel.
Twinkling another counterfeited beam,
Down with it flat, take the bridge quite away
Of disobedience, or unduteous title,
And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.
'Tis a gentle man here--a plague o' these
That very oft we pity enemies.
And all the unlawful issue that their lust
Swear thou art honest.
Look on the tragic loading of this bed,
Treason! treason!
Enter two Players, King and Queen
I was, my lord.
And, friends, disperse yourselves, but all remember
O general,
hath an argosy bound to Tripolis, another to the
soul is his own. Therefore should every soldier in
To be corrupted with my worthless gifts.
Enter ISABELLA
'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
What services canst thou do?
And this my neighbour too?
Upon whose age we void it up again,
Some falls are means the happier to arise.
To hear the process, and warrant she'll tax him home:
Ay, so we will.
Thou art all the comfort
Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
Of man and country.
it shines every where. I would be sorry, sir, but
with the finger of my substance: if he take her,
Decline all this, and see what now thou art:
Accuse the thunderer, whose bolt, you know,
Did make offence his eye did heal it up.
When from thy shore the tempest beat us back,
And I shall here abide the hourly shot
Begin to part their fringes of bright gold,
The execution of it shall make known.
And no.
His love, too long ago! I am old, my lords,
Comprising all that may be sworn or said,
Look pale as primrose with blood-drinking sighs,
Therefore 'twere reason you had manners now.
In any case, the offer of the king.
I'll do thee service for so good a gift.
O me, with what strict patience have I sat,
To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio.
Content thyself awhile. By the mass, 'tis morning,
grace, I hope: that were a trick indeed! but
Let me know the point.
Fronting the sun, receives and renders back
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
I will the banner from a trumpet take,
Not I	I must be found:
Reigns in my blood and will remember'd be.
thinking, he would fain have had it. Then he
Let's have your company, or, if you please,
Than wish a snow in May's new-fangled mirth,
Who now are here, taking their leaves of me,
I never swore this lady such an oath.
'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.
Enter ORLANDO, with his sword drawn
Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts,
He is dead, Caesar:
By any indirection: I did send
With strong and mighty preparation.
If so, our copper buys no better treasure.
eternal food to his jealousy.
'Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.
Knowing that thou wouldst have me drown'd on shore,
And I have reason for it. Signior Antonio
By the kind gods, 'tis most ignobly done
To make me hunger more, that I should forge
Ancient, conduct them: you best know the place.
Never was seen so black a day as this:
I Pompey am,--
Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales:
lust, are not the things they go under: many a maid
As for the Duke of York, this late complaint
Say, I, her sovereign, am her subject love.
How shall I know thee again?
Very brief, and to exceeding good sense--less.
Like doth quit like, and MEASURE still FOR MEASURE.
Enter CLARENCE and SOMERSET
And earthly power doth then show likest God's
He hence removed last night and with more haste
had been in his belly, I would have kept such a
But that of hand: the still and mental parts,
Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear,
To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,
Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming,
Her countless glory, which desert must gain,
Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counsel
Than such a murder is.
My ransom is this frail and worthless trunk,
mother shall bring from him: there is no more mercy
Unless you have a codpiece to stick pins on.
Which by his death hath lost much majesty.
It must be by his death: and for my part,
If ever I live to see it, I will challenge it.
Enter WARWICK and GLOUCESTER
What, ho, Pisanio!
But if she cannot love you, sir?
We have been too slight in sufferance.
Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe
Your statue spouting blood in many pipes,
Hear it apart.
Caesar sends greeting to the Queen of Egypt,
Art thou afeard?
But this being so, he's just.
Farewell the tranquil mind! farewell content!
Seeing his reputation touch'd to death,
As the dead carcasses of unburied men
Before a sleeping giant.' Tell him so.
betwixt us. Only, thus far you shall answer: if
Master doctor, my daughter is in green: when you
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
You are contented to be led in triumph
Wade to the market-place in Frenchmen's blood,
And so am I for no woman.
Ay, 'twas he that told me first:
As good to die and go, as die and stay.
Go know of Cassio where he supp'd to-night.
I do engage my life.
It were but necessary you were waked,
Do with your injuries as seems you best,
What are you, sir?
False to my nature? Rather say I play
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
talk of his horse, and he makes it a great
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
No good at all that I can do for him,
You'll think it strange if I should marry her.
From those that wish the downfall of our house!
Farewell to your worship.
Musicians waiting. Enter Servingmen with napkins
He needs as many, sir, as Caesar has,
Shall lose the royalty of England's throne.
Nature's own sweet and cunning hand laid on:
That minces virtue, and does shake the head
There is no stir or walking in the streets,
For yet ere supper-time must I perform
Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.
But what should go by water. Prithee, tonight
'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
A priest there offering to it his own heart.
A buzzing of a separation
When I have most need to employ a friend,
shower of rain as well as Jove.
By our remembrances of days foregone,
Come hither, gracious sovereign, view this body.
'Here may you see the tyrant.'
as they buy hob-nails, by the hundreds.
Air
Which, cunningly effected, will beget
What is this same?
like smell, a kind of not of the newest Poor-
Not to behold--
Environed with all these hideous fears?
Let's fetch him off, or make remain alike.
I am call'd Dercetas,
To the first giver.'
As patches set upon a little breach
Do cream and mantle like a standing pond,
A natural guiltiness such as is his,
heure de couper votre gorge.
I had been still a happy king of men.
That dogs bark at me as I halt by them,
If I have kill'd the issue of your womb,
Meet in one line, and vast confusion waits,
Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing.
Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,
In the king's business.
Even so
And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs
Remember, lords, your oaths to Henry sworn,
knock me well, and knock me soundly'? And come you
Behold, sir.
The harm of unscann'd swiftness, will too late
man, prove it.
Why, with my lord, madam.
but I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with
Than one that's sick o' the gout, since he had rather
[Aside]  She shines not upon fools, lest the
As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
As plays the sun upon the glassy streams,
Signior Bassanio, hear me:
I see them! I see them! there's Best's son, the
Thou know'st I have power
Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur's death?
On abjects, orts and imitations,
There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
Hath look'd upon my passes. Then, good prince,
That first that ever touch'd him--he was carried
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Our duty to your honour.
Which rather threatenest than dost promise aught,
We are amazed, and thus long have we stood
Alarum. Excursions. Enter WARWICK
go to him: he knows not yet of his horrorable
Diable! Jack Rugby,--mine host de Jarteer,--have I
time: it opens the eyes of expectation:
Then yield thee, coward,
I do invest you jointly with my power,
Must justify my knowledge.
Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia,
loss! the thief gone with so much, and so much to
Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate.
The stealth of our most mutual entertainment
What hast here? ballads?
Wrinkles forbid!
Not to be over-ruled. Idle old man,
RICHARD
And so adieu, sweet Jude! nay, why dost thou stay?
Nothing. What news?
Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen,
Lead me on.
Come, we'll have him in a dark room and bound. My
Foix, Lestrale, Bouciqualt, and Charolois,
And given to fornications, and to taverns and sack
Exeunt
Speak ere thou diest.
He did bewray his practise, and received
Had I before known this young man his son,
Exit
She tells me here, she'd wed the stranger knight,
accept his service.
How fares your majesty?
That she with Cassio hath the act of shame
seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason.
Which made the fault that we cannot correct,
Welcome shall they be,
Word of denial in thy labras here!
But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring,
To hear her prayers for them, as now for us
cannot be so neither: yes, it is so, it is so, it
there's money for thee.
Exit with the body
sallet, my brainpan had been cleft with a brown
Which, of he or Adrian, for a good
Be it forbid, my lord!
Heard many grievous, I do say, my lord,
I'll leave you to confer of home affairs,
if you do stir abroad, go armed.
Flourish of trumpets
Bestow thy fawning smiles on equal mates,
And, which is worse, within thy nasty mouth!
Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,
And then, to sleep but three hours in the night,
And here, in sight of heaven, to Rome I swear,
Enter the PRINCE OF WALES and FALSTAFF
Forgive me, cousin! Ah, dear Juliet,
My lord and master loves you: O, such love
A just and open trial. While she lives
Will bear up with this exercise, so long
and it shall be said so again while Stephano
Which humbleness may drive unto a fine.
What, hast thou dined? The tailor stays thy leisure,
Look, more!
But for the certain knowledge of that truth
Of Costard.
I have one thing more to ask him yet, good Charmian:
And then he falls, as I do. I have ventured,
Your castle is surprised, your wife and babes
And wash away thy country's stained spots.
Where he bestows himself?
And say you would present her at the leet,
Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends,
Where shall I meet you?
It is that fery person for all the orld, as just as
'Tis a good form.
Whether that thy youth and kind
As 'twere a knell unto our master's fortunes,
this night in a dance: and if he found her
With such a graceful courtesy deliver'd?
our spirit,
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase, 'beautified' is
Stop in your wind, sir: tell me this, I pray:
What brings you here to court so hastily?
Your father's sickness is a maim to us.
If thou retire, the Dauphin, well appointed,
And spurn me back: but if it be not so,
And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel,
Re-enter KING. BERTRAM and PAROLLES retire
And are upon the Mediterranean flote,
As will the rest, so willeth Winchester.
And well said too, for who shall go about
Lays blame upon his promise. Please't your highness
The people's enemy is gone, is gone!
What should I speak?
How came you in these parts? where were you bred?
To say if that the bastard boys of York
To the protection of the prosperous gods,
And she brings news, and every tongue that speaks
The faults of fools but folly.
By being peevish? I tell thee what, Antonio--
Gives in your weakness strength unto your foe,
eternity and could put breath into his work, would
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
Accusativo, hinc.
From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
Nothing of that wonderful promise, to read him by
And found the blessedness of being little:
Speak not so grossly. You are all amazed:
A strain of rareness: and I grieve myself
In every power that moves.
But till this afternoon his passion
Now will I hence about thy business,
hurt done! Though honesty be no puritan, yet it
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Irishman, a very valiant gentleman, i' faith.
not of him in the court. Let me speak with the
am a peppercorn, a brewer's horse: the inside of a
My love shall hear the music of my hounds.
Therefore away with us to Killingworth.
Beauty is bought by judgement of the eye,
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Their dearest action in the tented field,
And meant to wreck thee, but, beshrew my jealousy!
And brought your prisoner to your palace gate.
And come, Egeus, you shall go with me,
'Solus,' egregious dog? O viper vile!
An humble heart,--
And in the taste confounds the appetite:
Then you love us, we you, and we'll clasp hands:
undergo those employments wherein I should have
So that, dear lords, if I be left behind,
For every pelting, petty officer
The Count Rousillon: know you such a one?
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
This is to horse. Adieu, noble Agrippa.
Forward by nature, enemy to peace,
Have chid me from the battle, swearing both
As by your grace shall be propounded him.
And where two raging fires meet together
Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye:
Enter LUCIUS
Are not inherited. Then, dear countryman,
tribunal plebs, to take up a matter of brawl
ANTIPHOLUS
Nay, I am sure she does. She came to him th' other
Mine were the very cipher of a function,
I overheard him and his practises.
And think thee worthy of an empress' love:
Away! what art thou?
Any thing on him, for he hath a witchcraft
But, if you were the devil, you are fair.
Go anticly, show outward hideousness,
A lioness hath whelped in the streets,
Than yours, my lord.
SCENE IV. A street.
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop,
Ay, traitor, Marcius!
praise him.
But fierce Andronicus would not relent,
Quoth who?
SCENE III. Woods and cave, near the seashore.
And let another half stand laughing by,
Thou reft'st me of my lands. Euriphile,
That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
My soul the father, and these two beget
Am I not an inch of fortune better than she?
A punishment or trial? Yes, no wonder,
The same indeed, a very valiant fellow.
She's fled unto that peasant Valentine,
water, not a drop before: therefore bear up, and
Exit
Dear lad, believe it,
Hath left mine arm: it was thy master's: 'shrew me,
And you shall find me, wretched man, a thing
Exceeding the nine sibyls of old Rome:
Transported, with no worse nor better guard
Never, Iago: Like to the Pontic sea,
Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing
A wandering vagabond, my rights and royalties
I will not send them: I will after straight
And show'd thou makest some tender of my life,
Or else you famish, that's a threefold death.
By gar, de herring is no dead so as I vill kill him.
Here comes lean Jack, here comes bare-bone.
Mark you this, Bassanio,
to his legs again?
I do, and will fetch off Bohemia for't,
So in the earth, to this day is not known:
Nor know I you by voice or any feature:
and say 'Father, as it please you.' But yet for all
Each in his office ready at thy beck.
Concerning you.
I have spoke this, to know if your affiance
My lord, you do me shameful injury,
That you shall be new-christen'd in the Tower.
And pinch'd the lily-tincture of her face,
Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir,
And will, to save the blood on either side,
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
Intolerable, not to be endured!
Ah, what a shame were this! Look on the boy,
But that the earthy and cold hand of death
Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets.
And yet a dispensation may be had.
Have left me naked to mine enemies.
And give them leave to fly that will not stay,
She turn'd to folly, and she was a whore.
Thy eye Jove's lightning bears, thy voice his dreadful thunder,
Here are your sons again, and I must lose
A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
Exit
Past thought! What said she to you? Get more tapers:
That give you cause to prove my saying true.
I'll undertake may see away their shilling
The master of the cross-bows, Lord Rambures,
Those in commission yet return'd?
Patience, good lady, wizards know their times:
And when I ope my lips let no dog bark!'
That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey:
They are all but stomachs, and we all but food,
Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none:
I do not find that thou dealest justly with me.
Think but upon the wrong he did us all,
No, good swabber, I am to hull here a little
Whose proof, nor yells of mothers, maids, nor babes,
Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great, and in
As next the king he was successive heir,
Ourself and Bushy, Bagot here and Green
To Henry Bolingbroke.
Faith so infringed, which such zeal did swear?
Here 'tis, commends it to your blessing.
The world will say, he is not Talbot's blood,
Being of no power to make his wishes good:
The dozen white louses do become an old coat well,
What's he?
He is their god: he leads them like a thing
RICHARD
Being a bark to brook no mighty sea,
Make not too rash a trial of him, for
SCENE I. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
the pestilence, to sigh, like a school-boy that had
To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo.
Than you should such dishonour undergo,
For princes to come view fair Portia:
SCENE VII. Near Actium. MARK ANTONY's camp.
And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.
And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well.
shall never laugh but in that maid's company! But
A proper man.
hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
Yet are they passing cowardly. But, I beseech you,
will be a good excuse for me hereafter to leave my wife.
Nay, nothing, Master Moth, but what they look upon.
in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.
Falstaff will learn the humour of the age,
Pray you, speak no more to me: I will leave all as I
He does, he does: we'll be revenged on him.
Why I should yield to thee?
The Jew shall have all justice, soft! no haste:
Cutting a smaller hair than may be seen,
Do, with like timorous accent and dire yell
He talks to me that never had a son.
That mine own use invites me to cut down,
And I was trimm'd in Madam Julia's gown,
None better than to let him fetch off his drum,
Far off, methinks, I hear the beaten drum:
Do sorely ruffle, for many miles a bout
He is in haste, therefore, I pray you to go.
Do mock their charge with snores: I have drugg'd
Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will
So would not I	my love doth so approve him,
Why, that's well said. What colour is my gown of?
I will, sir.
What, of death too,
That's my mind too. Good morrow, Lord AEneas.
To free King Henry from imprisonment
And found at sea again! O Helicanus,
Presuming on their changeful potency.
But let him say so then, and let him go,
For your conversion. Now your traveller,
of thunder and lightning heard.
You have witchcraft in your lips, Kate: there is
Ah, what a sign it is of evil life,
And kiss him with a glorious victory.
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair,
And hunger will enforce them to be more eager:
Alas, my lord, what do you mean by that?
Pass our accept and peremptory answer.
will prove a cockney. I prithee now, ungird thy
furthest inch of Asia, bring you the length of
And wide unclasp the tables of their thoughts
Exeunt
Free speech and fearless I to thee allow.
And from my soul too,
since. How now! who's there?
Than all the complete armour that thou wear'st!
commanded out of the chamber, only this methought I
Then with a passion would I shake the world,
Re-enter MARIA
To keep our great Saint George's feast withal:
Dared once to touch a dust of England's ground?
Sir, here's a woman would speak with you.
Is not infected: but if one present
[Aside]          O, 'tis too true!
The ring of me to give the worthy doctor.
Exit
Both too, and women's sons.
As I before unparted to your worship,
As much in mock as mark.
Madam, within, but never man so changed.
than legs, nor no more shoes than feet, nay,
More widows in them of this business' making
It is enough, I'll think upon the questions:
yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the
In what enormity is Marcius poor in, that you two
Master, a mercatante, or a pedant,
Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture,
I'll see it done.
We charge you, in the name of God, take heed,
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
Enter DON JOHN
Dreaming on both, for all thy blessed youth
SCENE III. Tarsus. A room in CLEON's house.
The rabble should have first unroof'd the city,
As my Antigonus to break his grave
That did but show thee, of a fool, inconstant
Then thus: I have from Port le Blanc, a bay
Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward.
Think every bearded fellow that's but yoked
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Poins!
To ease the anguish of a torturing hour?
A kingdom for a stage, princes to act
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
That others touch, and often touching will
I'll not to bed to-night, let me alone,
She is i' the rear our birth.
I'll lend you something: my having is not much,
ANTIPHOLUS
Leonato and his brother. What thinkest thou? Had
Where did I leave?
Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
Staying for waftage. O, be thou my Charon,
Upon this island as a spy, to win it
kill King Pericles, and if I do it not, I am sure to
And he will fill thy wishes to the brim
I will never mistrust my wife again till thou art
As to annoy us all: which to prevent,
That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,
Her sighs will make a battery in his breast,
Re-enter First Murderer
glad to receive. I am confessor to Angelo, and I
Enter PORTIA
Our fealty and Tenantius' right
Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm,
And will you rent our ancient love asunder,
And to the chapel let us presently.
is young, and, therefore, if you should deal double
Well, sir.
Then they for sudden joy did weep,
Would God that any in this noble presence
A day will come when York shall claim his own,
of company. I think, if your husbands were dead,
What, with my tongue in your tail? nay, come again,
And yet with charity. He was a man
La you now, you hear:
Cast on my noble father.
Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord
Soft! who comes here?
Like to his father's greatness: his approach,
Direct not him whose way himself will choose:
I am son to the queen.
Now I come to't my lord
certain Venetians, and thither comes the bauble,
head: what matter have you against me?
And not my husband's secrets?
Tell me, sirrah, but tell me true, I charge you,
His son is thirty.
together. Villanous thoughts, Roderigo! when these
For when they hold 'em, you would swear directly
That you withdraw you and abate your strength,
I have surely seen him:
His ring I do accept most thankfully:
Or I am much deceived, cuckolds ere now,
The rest I'd give to be to you translated.
serves a bad woman, whose house, sir, was, as they
If once it be neglected, ten to one
One i' the neck, and two i' the thigh,--there's
DON
Let her who would be rid of him devise
I'll speak a prophecy ere I go:
When I was mortal, my anointed body
Therefore I think I am not in the night,
captain-general of the Grecian army, Agamemnon,
So do you too, where you perceive them thick.
How if it be false, son?
Where do you dwell?
Arm, arm, my lord,--Rome never had more cause.
and a quiet sword, by the means whereof a' breaks
about you, have you?
Aside to ARIEL
Remain a pinch'd thing, yea, a very trick
Did triumph in my face, and they are fled,
I had thought, by making this well known unto you,
No prodigal.
Sirs, take away the duke, and guard him sure.
Here is my hand, the deed is worthy doing.
With no less honour to the Antiates
Yet speaks and peradventure may recover.
All hail, my lords! which of this princely train
But is there any else longs to see this broken music
Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth
She will taste as like this as a crab does to a
As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
As true as steel, as plantage to the moon,
some that take upon them to know, or do take upon
On me, my bargains and my well-won thrift,
If I do lie and do
And I do think she's thirty.
Alack, sir, he is mad.
I am your better, traitors as ye are:
You judge it straight a thing impossible
Except it be to pray against thy foes.
This man, whom hand to hand I slew in fight,
use his master so, being perhaps, for aught I see,
Exeunt
That nothing sung but death to us and ours:
That this remotion of the duke and her
O, know you yet, he doth it publicly,
Then I know thee not:
O God! methinks it were a happy life,
Whom I with all the office of my heart
When death doth close his tender dying eyes,
These tears are my sweet Rutland's obsequies:
That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks.
Nor knows he how to live but by the spoil,
From morn till night, out of his pavilion.
dimensions, senses, affections, passions? fed with
To none but thee, no more, but when to thee.
But, by great Mars, the captain of us all,
I will make proof of thine.
And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade,
O, sir, when he shall hear of your approach,
Ten thousand dollars to our general use.
That set him high in fame.
And majesty might never yet endure
These promises are fair, the parties sure,
The play may pass, if they be still and willing,
His hair uprear'd, his nostrils stretched with struggling,
is infinite and the execution confined, that the
Sir, I commend you to your own content.
Judge me, you gods! wrong I mine enemies?
shoulder, and with his royal finger, thus, dally
And good even to you, sir.
Exit
rest, for there is nothing in the between but
Will not peruse the foils, so that, with ease,
Faint-hearted boy, arise, and look upon her.
change your trade, I'll be your tapster still.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
Ay, but, I fear me, in another sense.
Thank me, sir, for what?
Knocking within
Sit down: thou art no flatterer:
Ran hither to your grace, whom I beseech
O Perdita, what have we twain forgot!
But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage,
the common people.
Now to Marina bend your mind,
In Parthia did I take thee prisoner,
Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes,
I say, the proclamation!
as the morality of imprisonment. What's thy
He did confound the best part of an hour
Mark our contract.
Here is the cap your worship did bespeak.
With dreadful pomp of stout invasion!
And never going aright, being a watch,
She shall not need, we'll meet her in the field.
Ah, Gaunt, his blood was thine! that bed, that womb,
No sooner had they told this hellish tale,
Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness
Fear you the boar, and go so unprovided?
If not at court,
My father's bears more toward the market-place,
Never name to us, you have half our power:
Then have I substance too.
Aside
Beats them out, and then retires to his cave
I'll bring you to a captain in this town,
Most smiling, smooth, detested parasites,
Yonder comes news. A wager they have met.
Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire,
So thou, my surfeit and my heresy,
Alas, good lady!
Perform'd to your sole daughter.
Of my Lord Hastings' late imprisonment.
Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a glass,
The noble house o' the Marcians, from whence came
But Rosaline, you have a favour too:
The pommel of Caesar's falchion.
whole, and let burnt sack be the issue. Come, lay
Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks,
Pray God he may acquit him of suspicion!
three pound, lift as much as his brother Hector.
But yet my caution was more pertinent
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
But, pray, how pass'd it?
Mort de ma vie! all is confounded, all!
Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake,
there's no labouring i' the winter. All that follow
What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
Heigh-ho!
Her husband, knave: wouldst thou betray me?
Enter FLUELLEN
The dam will wake, and, if she wind you once,
Your Italy contains none so accomplished a courtier
Valour and pride excel themselves in Hector,
I will not part with a village of it, I will have it
No, this thrice worthy and right valiant lord
They kill him
The ostentation of our love, which, left unshown,
For, as thou urgest justice, be assured
His napkin, with his true tears all bewet,
Enter ANTONY
Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide.
And show the best of our delights:
About his title, and hath sent for you
O, me!
Be plainer with me, let me know my trespass
She is a woman, therefore to be won.
I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it:
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
By all their influences, you may as well
And so I wish'd thy body might my heart:
discretion you ought to use me, look you: being as
Procure your sureties for your days of answer.
plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his
Wherefore I sent for you.
Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed,
Other offenders we will pause upon.
Thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour,
Your high profession spiritual: that again
The fiery orbs above and the twinn'd stones
the deed in the praise.
Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen,
The pangs of barr'd affections, though the king
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
Three in Egypt
Get you to bed, faith, You'll be sick to-morrow
This gilded serpent
Ye have found him, cardinal:
Shall be discover'd, please you, sit and hark.
That he which is was wish'd until he were,
And wanting breath to speak help me with tears.
And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons:
How this Herculean Roman does become
Ay, but hearken, sir, though the chameleon Love can
Like to my followers in prosperity,
I call the gods to witness, I will choose
More fearful, is deliver'd.
That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours.
Send me your prisoners with the speediest means,
And from thy justice fly.
I here discard my sickness! Soul of Rome!
Who should attend on him? He makes up the file
Remaineth none but mad-brain'd Salisbury,
O'erhang and jutty his confounded base,
And gentlewomen wear such caps as these
No medicine in the world can do thee good,
This hand should chop it off, and with the
shall be the end of my business.
Appear unkinglike.
not such a fool to think what I list, nor I list
Reads
of the Romans.
The medicine of our house, how shall we do?
For I by vow am so embodied yours,
Who since I heard to be discomfited.
You may so in the end.
Because I am the store-house and the shop
I'll lead you to some biding.
What I have said to you.
And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it.
Who, he? I think the sun where he was born
Unless the master were the man. How now!
Do one thing for me that I shall entreat.
wrong side may be turned outward!
Think on my words.
I will answer it straight, I have done all this.
Here sits a king more woful than you are.
To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous
Shall Henry's conquest, Bedford's vigilance,
Is a mad tale he told to-day at dinner,
Which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on, my fellows:
Gloucester. Seek out where thy father is, that he
But, for the handkerchief,--
He is no crescent, and his horns are
And will upon the instant put thee to't:
To pinch her by the hand, and, on that token,
Where, like Arion on the dolphin's back,
Enter SICINIUS, BRUTUS, and an AEdile
In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.
Our subjects, sir,
Stay for an answer to your embassy,
[Aside]  Cold news for me, for I had hope of France
avouch the justice of your dealing?
Enter DUMAIN, with a paper
O the heavens!
to her! If ever I was respected with her, or she
Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
Save yourself, my lord:
Forbidden late to carry any weapon,
If we may pass, we will, if we be hinder'd,
I cry you mercy: I mean the lord protector.
It to be stirr'd, but oft have hinder'd, oft,
Thou dost speak masterly:
By friendship nor by speaking.'
Why, I can teach you, cousin, to command
Made peace enmity, fair love of hate,
Will you think so?
The poet's eye, in fine frenzy rolling,
Should choose himself a wife, but as good reason
To think but nobly of my grandmother:
potato-finger, tickles these together! Fry, lechery, fry!
Entirely honour: I would not be delay'd.
Not a hair perish'd,
Ere I ope his letter,
'This general applause and loving shout
Come, let us go: we will include all jars
If you repay me not on such a day,
[Aside]                What will this come to?
Ere they can hide their levity in honour,
Have in these parts from morn till even fought
Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit
ANTIPHOLUS
That shall you know hereafter.
I am so sorry for my trespass made
Players in your housewifery, and housewives' in your beds.
'em, I think, surely.
To draw with idle spiders' strings
Exit
whom I am bound to.
Why he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.
My lords, I thank you both for your good wills,
Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
ACT II
O villain, that set this down among her vices! To
Exit
Make it no wonder, if you knew my business,
like to have: and, truly, when he dies, thou shalt
Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so
Adsum.
May take off some extremity, which to read
God bless thee, lady!
The blood of malice in a vein of league,
So cunning and so young is wonderful.
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Exeunt
Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine, fill full.
Or scant our former having in despite,
Exit
To her will, sir, or so.
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good.
Of what you promised me.
I got them in my country's service, when
Welcome, dear madam.
I think it is good morrow, is it not?
O, 'tis true:
Perchance she weeps because they kill'd her husband,
To better purpose.
Bear from hence his body,
This is he, my master said,
The most arch of piteous massacre
No, my good lord.
To pluck on others.
It is my office, and, madam, pardon me.
But you have done more miracles than I,
What, Longaville! and reading! listen, ear.
Give you all greetings that a king, at friend,
carpet consideration, but he is a devil in private
That lately stole his daughter:
By swaggering could I never thrive,
How sad he looks! sure, he is much afflicted.
Say, I command her to come to me.
What thou wilt,
Have no more profit of their shining nights
that they speak i' the nose thus?
Would come against you.
For love of you, not hate unto my friend,
In resolution as I swore before.
Nor from the dust of old oblivion raked,
Which I will bear in triumph to the king,
Because here is a man accused of treason:
Who, newly in the seat, that it may know
If this poor trash of Venice, whom I trash
Dizzy-eyed fury and great rage of heart
It signs well, does it not?
Elected him our absence to supply,
To add the death of you.
And that shall Claudio know, so shall the prince
Enter JULIA and LUCETTA
Dies
Princely shall be thy usage every way.
With her, on her, what you will.
Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me?
Say on: an if it please me which thou speak'st
To keep her still, and men in awe,
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
I am sorry, Cymbeline,
Through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind.
Come, come, beshrew your heart! you'll ne'er be good,
That every minute of his being thrusts
Like one that means his proper harm, in manacles,
Tranio, let's go: one thing more rests, that
came any from mine that might offend your majesty.
That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow:
To barbarous licence, as 'tis ever common
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
I took a costly jewel from my neck,
I'll hang my head and perish.
How God and good men hate so foul a liar.
And she did gratify his amorous works
women the play may please. If I were a woman I
Proclaimed a strumpet: with immodest hatred
She sings as sweetly as a nightingale:
Pray, be counsell'd:
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
Say that the king, which may command, entreats.
Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
For the table, sir, it shall be served in, for the
There shall we consummate our spousal rites.
that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his lady was but a
And show the heavens more just.
Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant,
As we are now glad to behold your eyes,
mine honest neighbours shouted.
my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge,
How would he look, to see his work so noble
Pardon, goddess of the night,
Then, O you blessed ministers above,
The usurper's cursed head: the time is free:
monster, but an infinite loss.
courtesy would invent some other custom of
That treason can but peep to what it would,
Than in the pride and salt scorn of his eyes,
Nay, speak thy mind, and let him ne'er speak more
Of what I saw there.
at home, therefore leave us.
I am your husband, if you like of me.
DON
As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant,
To alter this, for counsel is but vain.
Are come with Cassius.
He throws without distinction. Give me leave,
I see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me.
Ne'er seen but wonder'd at: and so my state,
[Aside]  You are cock and capon too, and you crow,
You to your land and love and great allies:
I will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I may
Rather than want a spirit: appear and pertly!
They call'd us for our fierceness English dogs,
We'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes
Didst perceive it?
Pardon me, wife. Henceforth do what thou wilt,
My lord, most villanously, believe it.
Exeunt QUEEN KATHARINE and her Attendants
Cry within: 'Help! help!'
has left with thee: if this be a horseman's coat,
And fled he is upon this villany.
Exeunt Lords
But on us both did haggish age steal on
It is backed like a weasel.
And so 'scape hanging: trust not the physician,
Of stuff'd sufficiency: now from the oracle
And large proportion of his strong-knit limbs.
Let us go. Come,
ease:' O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
Trust me, a mad host. Follow, gentlemen, follow.
To call thyself Marina.
Hath Britain all the sun that shines? Day, night,
You have added worth unto 't and lustre,
And now he writes to heaven for his redress:
Thy shape invisible retain thou still:
All too soon I shall,
You're much deceived: in nothing am I changed
But where the bull and cow are both milk-white,
Well, do it, and be brief, I will walk by:
There dancing up to the chins, that the foul lake
Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece,
But yet I know you'll do as I advise.
And so in progress to be hatch'd and born,
Of us must Pompey presently be sought,
Do you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a
ANTENOR passes
My mistress with a monster is in love.
And did he not, in his protectorship,
they are slanders, sixth and lastly, they have
Darest thou maintain the former words thou spakest?
Judge.
Sir Richard Ketly, Davy Gam, esquire:
should counterfeit too and rise? by my faith, I am
I could not do withal, then I'll repent,
taken with the cramp was drowned and the foolish
love of that colour, methinks Samson had small reason
And stand securely on their battlements,
'Twixt right and wrong, for pleasure and revenge
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
She did, my lord, when Valentine was here.
Sirrah, come on, go along with us.
Of the great count himself, she is too mean
Whose flood begins to flow within mine eyes,
That is the way to lay the city flat,
has letters from the general, wherein he gives my
Athwart the sea. Behold, the English beach
To keep him safely till his day of trial.
Antonius!
cudgel: it shall hang like a meteor o'er the
Your voices therefore.' When we granted that,
To the house of Signior Baptista Minola?
Enter MARK ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, IRAS, ALEXAS, with others
Or for love's sake, a word that loves all men,
And with that odds he weighs King Richard down.
As willingly as e'er I came from school.
Kneel down and take my blessing, good my girl.
Slave, thou hast slain me: villain, take my purse:
And, like a mountain cedar, reach his branches
Exeunt with trumpets
thee!' and by the operation of the second cup draws
Exit POLONIUS
That's like my brother's fault: if it confess
So wish I, I might thrust thy soul to hell.
Hath raised in Gallia have arrived our coast
For, ladies, we shall every one be mask'd,
You may say it, but not swear it.
But now return we to the false Duke Humphrey.
How many days will finish up the year,
if you be out, sir, I can mend you.
Fills the wide vessel of the universe.
To take a tedious leave: thus losers part.
Enter PHILEMON
No more to the crown but that. Lo, who comes here?
Go, bid thy master rise and come to me
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will,
And let these have a day appointed them
I owe the most, in money and in love,
Great King of England and my gracious lord,
Is dearly bought, 'tis mine and I will have it.
That in this spleen ridiculous appears,
And, friends unknown, you shall bear witness to 't:
Go play, Mamillius, thou'rt an honest man.
mouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior
Do me this right, hear me with patience.
for I think you have no money in your purse.
I say, no,
and quickly too. Farewell.
And in that chair where kings and queens are crown'd,
philosopher, when he had a desire to eat a grape,
A victor shall be known? will you the knights
It is his.
say 'Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to
Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest,
Of bold-faced victory. Then leaden age,
I am no loathsome leper, look on me.
O no, my reasons are too deep and dead,
your foins.
Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
he would see her to-morrow.
of my complexion. Besides, she uses me with a more
Was't I! yea, I it was, proud Frenchwoman:
Even in the jaws of danger and of death.
Perhaps they will but please themselves upon her,
And lards the lean earth as he walks along:
I have not breathed almost since I did see it.
Philarmonus!
And water cannot wash away your sin.
That noble-minded Titus means to thee!
Our sorrow with our comfort.
In Hector's wrath.
Mine would, sir, were I human.
All the whole synod of them!
Who having into truth, by telling of it,
Exit
[Aside to CLARENCE]  He plies her hard, and much rain
Are not you grieved that Arthur is his prisoner?
His second marriage shall be publish'd, and
Most heavenly music!
If yet her brother's pardon be come hither:
I go, and if you plead as well for them
'And more wealth than faults.'
Exit one with GLOUCESTER
You do not hold the method to enforce
As I can of those mysteries which heaven
Dismissing half your train, come then to me:
Ay, madam, in the heaviness of his sleep
By the which marriage the line of Charles the Great
The better cherish'd, still the nearer death.
And like thy brother, to enjoy thy land,
Will you go, coz?
So the remembrance of my former love
Oft does them by the weakest minister:
Even she, Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero:
To the Guard
And tell her she is thine: to whom I promise
Upon the enraged soldiers in their spoil
Enter MARK ANTONY with EUPHRONIUS, the Ambassador
If thou spy'st any, run and bring me word,
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
Sir, he is within, and I would I could do a good
Exeunt TRANIO, Pedant, and BAPTISTA
when I give the watch-'ords, do as I pid you:
A parley sounded
That has this morning left thee, would have still
Concluding 'Stay: not yet.'
For well you know we of the offering side
Richard, enough, I will be king, or die.
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
O Griffith, sick to death!
O Phoebus, hadst thou never given consent
Exeunt
Ah, so much interest have I in thy sorrow
To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
Giving him a chain from her neck
Master, it is no time to chide you now,
But, stay, I smell a man of middle-earth.
swears he'll turn me away.
Iago,--
Go, go, my servant, take thou Troilus' horse,
Blessed are clouds, to do as such clouds do!
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
Without, my noble lords?
I'll find about the making of the bed,
I should be as merry as the day is long,
countermands
By me entreats, great lord, thou wouldst vouchsafe
My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee.
We wait for certain money here, sir.
Yes, I beseech your grace: I am not yet well breathed.
Where I have seen them shiver and look pale,
For your partaker Pole and you yourself,
Both alike:
Item, Sauce,. . . 4d.
having any occasion to write for matter of grant,
Re-enter the Hostess
fence with his own shadow: if I should marry him, I
Yet freshly pitied in our memories.
Might well have made our sport a comedy.
Enter CASSIUS and his powers
Remember I have done thee worthy service,
And, for the ways are dangerous to pass,
using painting, do prove my occupation a mystery:
To lie like pawns lock'd up in chests and trunks,
Now, madam, may his highness live in freedom,
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
Nor tell the world Antiochus doth sin
Now are they but one lamp, one light, one sun.
Hark you, my friend, you said you could not beg.
Go, bear them hence, I will not hear them speak.
Will use you nobly and your followers.
Not three hours' travel from this very place.
What sport shall we devise here in this garden,
Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
Obeying in commanding, and thy parts
Do, young sir, your reputation shall not therefore
But set them down horrible traitors: spare not the babe,
Exit
Had you such leisure in the time of death
But winter and rough weather.
Wherefore? wherefore?
Sir, you o'er-rate my poor kindness: I was glad I
The worst of words.
Enter a company of mutinous Citizens, with staves, clubs, and other weapons
Ah, madam, 'tis too true: and that is worse,
Between the king and Katharine?
Norfolk, throw down, we bid, there is no boot.
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
O ceremony, show me but thy worth!
Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep,
Yet I express to you a mother's care:
But not take in the mind.
Are you fast married? Be assured of this,
Tribunes, I thank you: and this suit I make,
And henceforth I am thy true servitor:
But is my husband coming?
De nick. Et le menton?
question's out of my part. Good gentle one, give me
To RICHMOND
My name's Macbeth.
Would you enforce me to a world of care?
But slow in speech, yet sweet as spring-time flowers:
Mistress Ford. Now shall I sin in my wish: I would
you can the getting up of the negro's belly: the
To give him welcome.
Well, sir, then 'twill be dry.
How now, Meg!
Exit Gentleman
And lay new platforms to endamage them.
And you embrace the occasion to depart.
Bold as an oracle, and sets Thersites,
Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
But she loves you?
Since once he play'd a farmer's eldest son:
from this place, do what they can: I will walk up
Marry, then, sweet wag, when thou art king, let not
By my life,
'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent,
Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
And Cassio kill'd!
Master, master! news, old news, and such news as
To be the princely bride of such a lord,
Anon do meet the senate.
And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight:
Was my father a traitor, mother?
Ye're honest men: ye've heard that I have gold,
Courageously and with a free desire
Most bounteous sir,
And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown
Your person most, that he would pawn his fortunes
This wide-chapp'd rascal--would thou mightst lie drowning
For hither will our friends repair to us.
And so say I.
Is yet to name the winner: fare you well.
Industrious soldiership.
My Lord Bassanio, since you have found Antonio,
Ay, to devour him, as the hungry plebeians would the
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
call me usurer, let him look to his bond: he was
May they perceive's intent! He will require them,
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
Have got the mannish crack, sing him to the ground,
Woo contrary, deceived by these removes.
Her vestal livery is but sick and green
The French fight coldly, and retire themselves.
And fashion your demeanor to my looks,
above. Now, my masters, for a true face and good
A greater gift! O, that's the sword to it.
it is not Anne Page: by gar, I am cozened.
No stricter render of me than my all.
The firstlings of my hand. And even now,
To see the strange impatience of the heavens:
Immediately they will again be here
Nor shall appear in Sicilia.
Even with his pestilent scythe.
You have simply misused our sex in your love-prate:
You speak him far.
ACT I
Open the gates, and let me in.
My father, in kind heart and pity moved,
The net has fall'n upon me! I shall perish
To cull the plots of best advantages:
Wide o' the bow hand! i' faith, your hand is out.
And with that blood will make 'em one day groan for't.
Go take it hence, be gone, and say no more.
To voice him consul: lay the fault on us.
Hath rivall'd for our daughter: what, in the least,
Take it on her. Camillo and Polixenes
deal justly with me: come, come, nay, speak.
And I, to blame, have held him here too long.
The one is Caius Lucius.
If Time be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way,
If you be she, I do entreat your patience
The boy replied, 'An angel is not evil,
Bear with me, I am hungry for revenge,
To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
Let it no more bring out ingrateful man!
Persuades when speaking fails.
A valiant Greek, AEneas,--take his hand,--
I will no more enforce mine office on you.
The king doth keep his revels here to-night:
Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know,
A fasting tiger safer by the tooth,
wholesome iniquity have you that a man may deal
You seem to me as Dian in her orb,
To this dead man than you shall see me pay.
Exit
Now all the service I require of them
And manners, to intrude where I am graced,
Be bright and jovial among your guests to-night.
The subject of our watch.
I have fair meanings, sir.
Well, I say Troilus is Troilus.
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
And at this time most easy 'tis to do't,
The danger to itself?
Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose,
Above five hours: see how she gins to blow
And burn in many places, on the topmast,
Well, sir, to do you courtesy,
O, let me teach thee! for my father's sake,
May be she pluck'd it off
Conceit upon her father.
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
No, it is Casca, one incorporate
A lustre to it.
Except, O signieur, thou do give to me
Weigh'd not a hair of his. Plague of your policy!
From whom we thought it meet to hide our love
Or this imperious man will work us all
I shall know, sir, when I have done it.
The chastity he wounded. Cytherea,
can construe the action of her familiar style, and
I'll have her, but I will not keep her long.
BERTRAM gives a ring
Did gibe my missive out of audience.
Demanding of King Henry's life and death,
Pardon me, dear madam,
And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
Half my love with him, half my care and duty:
To this unlook'd for, unprepared pomp.
And yet it cannot overtake your slow purse.
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
There, Coriolanus.
For God's love, let me hear.
Where now you're both a father and a son,
Which is as bad as die with tickling.
The loss you have is but a son being king,
offenders, and let Time try: adieu.
charge of foot, and I know his death will be a
Of one entire and Perfect chrysolite,
With our discourse to make your grace to smile.
The sugar'd game before thee. But myself,
Two traded pilots 'twixt the dangerous shores
entertainment.
Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.
Do thou thy master's bidding: when thou see'st him,
knowest me! Is it two days ago since I tripped up
With labour and the thing she took to quench it,
The argument you held was wrong in you:
Of your king's sorrow.
A ghostly father, belike. Who knows that Lodowick?
Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, braving
And the contrarious winds that held the king
Of the death practised duke: for him 'tis well
houses over your heads, ravish your wives and
Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between
I am thus resolved: on Sunday next you know
Sleep for a week, for the next night, I warrant,
An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too, I'll
A full-hot horse, who being allow'd his way,
What shall be said to thee?
Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, and COMINIUS, with Senators and Patricians
more approbation than ever proof itself would have
Here's my glove: give me another of thine.
I have toward heaven breathed a secret vow
Thy mother took into her blameful bed
The light and careless livery that it wears
Exit Doctor
Allow obedience, if yourselves are old,
[To COMINIUS]                Lead you on.
Exeunt
With busy hammers closing rivets up,
More witnesseth than fancy's images
that I have sent her, by her own command
in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty
Why, worthy father, what have we to lose,
For she had eyes, and chose me. No, Iago,
By heaven, fond wretch, thou knowist not what thou speak'st,
'Tis not unknown to you, madam, I am a poor fellow.
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
Get you to your lord,
Except some petty towns of no import:
Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
Their pleasures here are past, so is their pain.
Wear both of them, for both of them are thine.
And let me all your fortunes understand.
And, after conflict such as was supposed
my father's ambition! he was thinking of civil wars
[Aside]  Still on my daughter.
The well-lost life of mine on his grace's cure
I warrant thee, nobody hears, mine own people, mine
I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
Speak, shall I call her in? Believe my words,
I will seek out Falstaff.
Thou marvell'st at my words: but hold thee still,
And, force perforce, I'll make him yield the crown,
list of a country's fashion: we are the makers of
Most welcome!
Hail to thee, noble master!
To present your highness with the man.
Bear witness, Heaven, I have my wish for ever.
When it should move you to attend me most,
But not kissed your keeper's daughter?
Because thou hast no face.
Desired us to make stand.
Lady, you know no rules of charity,
And that you will some good instruction give
When I desire it too.
Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS
That thou, Iago, who hast had my purse
Or for men's sake, the authors of these women,
That trudge betwixt the king and Mistress Shore.
O you gods!
Meet me all by break of day.
For any or for all these exercises,
How long hath this possession held the man?
With a sweet fellow to't?
Alas, then, she is drown'd?
And fee my friends in Rome. O negligence!
Hast thou gold yet? I'll take the gold thou
Have bared my bosom to the thunder-stone,
fourscore ducats!
I went
shallow,--a death that I abhor, for the water swells
I would be all, against the worst may happen.
To Lammas-tide?
Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
But who can cease to weep and look on this?
This Hector far surmounted Hannibal,--
Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
Here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors.
For, by my father's reverend tomb, I vow
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
What is his reputation with the duke?
They answer, in a joint and corporate voice,
It is but change, Titinius, for Octavius
Who 'twas that so endured, with his strong arms
drive away the time till Falstaff come, I prithee,
'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father
a harmless fairy, has done little better than
they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
Arm me, audacity, from head to foot!
Is the young Dauphin every way complete:
Albeit unused to the melting mood,
What his breast forges, that his tongue must vent,
Else would I very shortly see thee there.
My lord, I warrant you we will play our part,
He hath not told his thought to the king?
Methinks I could
Ay, by these gloves, did he, or I would I might
Mistress Ford, come, Mistress Ford,--
Pardon, my lord.
The lands and waters 'twixt your throne and his
With no less terror than the elements
Thou offspring of the house of Lancaster
For this world frowns, and Edward's sun is clouded.
Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.
God quit you in his mercy! Hear your sentence.
No, sir, I live by the church.
That would behold in me this shameful sport.
Prove false!
Flourish. Exeunt
This fellow here, Lord Timon, this thy creature,
Never, O never shall I see more joy!
Already, and, as I hear, the provost hath
A noble spirit!
Temptations have since then been born to's, for
Promotion follows. If I could find example
Giving the crown
Ay, ay. thou wouldst be gone to join with Richmond:
God comfort thy capacity! I say, the allusion holds
Let liberty make use of, space enough
he killed? for indeed I promised to eat all of his killing.
SCENE III. Another room in the same.
While sense can keep it on. And, sweetest, fairest,
Saving your mincing, the capacity
What, gone without a word?
In thy faint slumbers I by thee have watch'd,
And vengeance on the traitor Saturnine.
Patroclus kisses you.
To punish them, although not done, but meant.
I play'd the fool, it was my negligence,
direct them the way I am going, but such as wink and
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb,
The leisure of their answer, gave me cold looks:
Not for myself, Lord Warwick, but my son,
'Oman, art thou lunatics? hast thou no
I can no more.
Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand
With bats and clubs? The matter? speak, I pray you.
Makes wing to the rooky wood:
Which my lord paid for, be of any power
Well, sit we down,
Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost
My manors, rents, revenues I forego,
And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
And die among our neighbours. Nay, behold 's:
She's none of mine, my lord.
Be valiant and give signal to the fight.
And I to thee engaged a prince's word,
And in conclusion she shall watch all night:
And so we will, provided that he win her.
Get you gone, sirrah.
For do but stand upon the foaming shore,
To hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home.
to thee. My revenge is now at Milford: would I had
Come, go, I will dispatch the horsemen straight:
Behold our human actions, as they do,
With full bags of spices! A passport too!
Mislike me not for my complexion,
Here's to thy health.
See how the morning opes her golden gates,
Say, have I thy consent that they shall die?
I mean in singing, but in loving, Leander the good
With bills on their necks, 'Be it known unto all men
Rich men look sad and ruffians dance and leap,
By that and all the rites of knighthood else,
Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know
Of which, my lord, your honour is the last.
dangerous flat and fatal, where the carcasses of many
But, had it been the brother of my blood,
We may as well push against Powle's, as stir em.
The greatness of his person.
Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays and all.
Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not
And each of them had twenty times their power,
Than nobleness and riches: careless heirs
Thou toad, thou toad, where is thy brother Clarence?
Noblest of men, woo't die?
By all the laws of war you're privileged.
Make us thy ministers of chastisement,
And so will I.
Or overthrow incurable ensues.
Kneel'd at my feet, and bade me be advised
Go shake your ears.
Though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth,
Nor feels not what he owes, but by reflection,
Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
Show'd like a stubble-land at harvest-home,
My nobles leave me, and my state is braved,
My very hairs do mutiny, for the white
And snarleth in the gentle eyes of peace:
something: but I make my wager rather against your
If for his tender here I make some stay.
Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first:
[Aside]
He was a prince.
Fare ye well at once: my bosom is full of kindness,
But, notwithstanding, with my personal eye
Indies, I understand moreover, upon the Rialto, he
My lord?
Here shall he see No enemy
I'll make one too.
Be measured or confined.
Datchet-lane: they took me on their shoulders, met
Ill-faced, worse bodied, shapeless everywhere,
But, Lepidus, go you to Caesar's house,
therefore I can be quiet.
Enfeoff'd himself to popularity,
O, I have heard him speak of that same brother,
Like to the senators of the antique Rome,
To whom, my lord?
The monstrous bulk of this ingratitude
This sway of motion, this Commodity,
excellent stomach.
Yield up, O love, thy crown and hearted throne
Are dearer than the natural bond of sisters.
fain hear some question 'tween you tway.
Well, what was yours?
With liver burning hot. Prevent, or go thou,
I am a lamb: but if you brave the Moor,
But Athenian found I none,
Care is no cure, but rather corrosive,
Finch-egg!
[Within]  Whoe'er he be, you may not be let in.
Juno and Ceres whisper seriously,
Or fruitful object be
Hath slain their governors, surprised our forts,
conclusion. For thy part, Claudio, I did think to
ANTIPHOLUS
That I should questionless be fortunate!
If there were no foes, that were enough
Ay, my good lord, he's dead.
Away, then! come, seek the conspirators.
And nature, stronger than his just occasion,
Why, he is the prince's jester: a very dull fool,
In deepest consequence.
With solemn reverence: throw away respect,
Unpleasing to a married ear!
For wrying but a little! O Pisanio!
Nay, now dispatch, 'twas I that stabb'd young Edward,
By gar, me do look he shall clapper-de-claw me,
'Gainst nature still!
I wore his sword Philippan.
I will attend the queen.
Beloved sons, be yours: which to confirm,
Your fame forever.
Well, madam, we must take a short farewell,
What joy is joy, if Silvia be not by?
That done, our day of marriage shall be yours,
Enough, enough, my lord, you have enough:
To come to me forthwith.
The noise goes, this: there is among the Greeks
Now, if this suit lay in Bianco's power,
As if a god, in hate of mankind, had
When I have show'd the unfitness,--
When fitness calls them on, and know by measure
And bid me say to you by word of mouth--
ACT V
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
Madam, with all my heart.
To say I have done no harm?
How fares my Kate? What, sweeting, all amort?
A knot you are of damned blood-suckers!
To wear away this long age of three hours
Pish!
And bawds and whores do churches build,
Adieu, good man devil.
O, the gibbet-maker! he says that he hath taken
And swear with me, as, with the woful fere
to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
The main consents are had, and here we'll stay
And a demand who is't shall die, I'd say
Within
Now is the winter of our discontent
My derivation was from ancestors
Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
Something then in rhyme.
Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the
From which lord to which lady?
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
One that but performs
Gloucester, whate'er we like, thou art protector
To ANGELO
Where is he living, clipp'd in with the sea
Exeunt BOYET and MARIA
His leg is but so so, and yet 'tis well:
dog's death. Answer not, I am gone.
A most manly wit, Margaret, it will not hurt a
'Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
At your important letters,--this ill day
How have I sworn!
Aside
Did ever Dian so become a grove
Know I these men that come along with you?
Be of good comfort, prince, for you are born
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
Which they would have the profferer construe 'ay.'
No, master, the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your
And to give notice, that no manner of person
Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy'd
The evil that thou causest to be done,
ones and millions.
Your lordship speaks your pleasure.
There, take it, prince, and if my form lie there,
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
Will easily be granted. You, my lord,
Let all my land be sold.
I'll leave it by degrees. Soft, let us see:
'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid:'
My lord!
see your time, take her by the band, away with her
ANTIPHOLUS
By taking nor by giving of excess,
Bestow your counsels on me: she now begs,
lord, if you will give me leave, I will tread this
directions in the true disciplines of the wars, look
That we shall see and know our friends in heaven:
My gracious liege, this too much lenity
inclination of the people, especially of the younger sort?
Troubled, confronted thus, and, for the extent
If you shall marry,
thoughts, and hot deeds? Why, they are vipers:
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,--
A dozen of them here have ta'en the sacrament,
He shall not need it, if he have his own.
As Falstaff, she and I, are newly met,
And make a chequer'd shadow on the ground:
Swum ashore. man, like a duck: I can swim like a
What was your dream? I long to hear you tell it.
Fare you well, with all my heart.
Till fortune, tired with doing bad,
From the murderer's gibbet throw
monstrous villain!
To weep, whose every passion fully strives
What need the bridge much broader than the flood?
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
thou art sad, get thee a wife, get thee a wife:
honestly, for, as you know, Master Froth, I could
To God, his sovereign and to him disloyal,
SCENE III. Gloucester's castle.
Or bobtail tike or trundle-tail,
With its sweet air: thence I have follow'd it,
Have with you, prince. My courteous lord, adieu.
No, my lord,
Who now is girdled with a waist of iron
Per Styga, per manes vehor.
you seek us afterwards in other terms, you
Her boat hath a leak,
Then is he more beholding to you than I.
Exeunt JAQUES, TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
Thy kingly doom and sentence of his pride.
...
But buckle with thee blows, twice two for one.
Shall more obey than to the edge of steel
Soft! and the impressure her Lucrece, with which she
Her mother, ever strong against that match
And no great friend, I fear me, to the king.
To see the wonders of the world abroad,
over and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I
But in his motion like an angel sings,
Which you are out of, with a gentler spirit,
I think it be: but we have no great cause to desire
O gentle villain, do not turn away!
with her, and bring her along with you, it may awake
They sleep
And with a blessed and unvex'd retire,
Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst?
leave your courtesy, good mounsieur.
Duck with French nods and apish courtesy,
protector.
Exeunt CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
Of my petition.
Broke oath on oath, committed wrong on wrong,
The noble Westmoreland and warlike Blunt,
Marry, well bethought:
Who by thy wisdom makest a prince thy servant,
Romeo! O, pale! Who else? what, Paris too?
To RICHMOND
Than the performance of our heaving spleens,
Sings
And chide the cripple tardy-gaited night
A seat for baseness.
Pray, sir, put your sword up, if you please.
As those that fear they hope, and know they fear.
Teach thou this sorrow how to make me die,
herself swore th' other day, that Troilus, for
My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets!
into a desperate assurance she will none of him:
O Douglas, hadst thou fought at Holmedon thus,
Well, your imprisonment shall not be long,
Avoid what's grown than question how 'tis born.
Or, wanting strength to do thee so much good,
Dishonestly afflicted, but yet honest.
In terms of choice I am not solely led
Will have your tongue too. This is a creature,
To do myself this wrong: till, at the last,
I understand thy looks: that pretty Welsh
And to commend their service to his will.
Have you the tongues?
Methought it did relieve my passion much,
ACT V
Exit
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick,
Upon a wrong'd, I would fain have said, a maid!
Exit BUCKINGHAM with the Citizens
His death's upon him, but not dead.
Of earned praise, Marina's life
No rescue? What, a prisoner? I am even
He dares not come there for the candle, for, you
Why went you not with master doctor, maid?
But in our orbs we'll live so round and safe,
Or cease your quest of love?
The strides they victors made: and now our cowards,
Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
A brand to the end o' the world.
Would they were multitudes, and on my head
For parting us,--O, is it all forgot?
Cannot be border'd certain in itself,
that the wrestling might not go forward.
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
Bring in thy ranks, but leave without thy rage:
From miserable slumber I awaked.
So fearful were they of infection.
Thou scarlet sin, robb'd this bewailing land
And time that is so briefly spent
Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed!
too for your society.
and the boy:--
Carry them here and there, jumping o'er times,
Exeunt all except BENEDICK and CLAUDIO
The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
news, then, in your paper?
The very principals did seem to rend,
See justice done on Aaron, that damn'd Moor,
Is not this he?
Till I have thank'd you: when dinner's done,
So fair an outward and such stuff within
Then this remains, that we divide our power.
And made Verona's ancient citizens
remember it.
Why will you suffer her to flout me thus?
Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall,
SCENE IV. The Tower of London.
To make a more requital to your love!
Came to the field and vanquished his foes:
honourable friend, Agrippa!
Here's a skull now, this skull has lain in the earth
The great metropolis and see of Rome:
too little for pomp to enter: some that humble
Flower of warriors,
My master preaches patience to him and the while
When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh.
I do not know what 'poetical' is: is it honest in
me, and take me, take a soldier, take a soldier,
Entreat some power to change this currish Jew.
No, nor to-morrow, not till I please myself.
How camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
Exeunt ALCIBIADES and Lords
And publish it that she is dead indeed,
Go in with me: my duty cannot suffer
ne'er flatter thee. O you gods, what a number of
SCENE IV. The same.
and Caesar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and
Enter AENEAS
God pless it and preserve it, as long as it pleases
I would not be thy executioner:
Like syllable of dolour.
Do thy worst:
Dismiss me!
Scrambling, out-facing, fashion-monging boys,
Why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady?
All health unto my gracious sovereign!
Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
Let specialties be therefore drawn between us,
And, for an earnest of a greater honour,
And our consent, for better trial of you,
To have my praise for this, perform a part
Enter FERDINAND, LONGAVILLE, DUMAIN, BIRON, and Attendants
The bow is bent and drawn, make from the shaft.
Nay, send in time.
Or your own honour to contain the ring,
bravely marching, it hath served me instead of a
Is he not here?
What say'st thou?
Which was thrust forth of Milan, who most strangely
And sounded all the depths and shoals of honour,
And in the most exact regard support
As may beseem some well-reputed page.
Give me my robes. I am wild in my beholding.
This is the hole where Aaron bid us hide him.
Or what is he of basest function
himself on the expectation of plenty: come in
Can neither call it perfect day nor night.
God comfort him in this necessity!
In at his window, set this up with wax
For him I thank your grace.
Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine,
Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed
Enter a Messenger
Yourself, renowned prince, then stood as fair
Heat them and they retort that heat again
My duty, madam, and most humble service.
Might so have tempted him as you have done,
If you think meet, this afternoon will post
Not yet, Sir Thomas Lovell. What's the matter?
Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,
What, do you grumble? I'll be with you straight.
white wench's black eye, shot through the ear with a
Here by the cheeks I'll drag thee up and down.
Your sense pursues not mine: either you are ignorant,
Have the like oaths: he had sworn to marry me
Whose ruin you have sought, that to her laws
To taint his nobler heart and brain
Bring the strong poison that I bought of him.
And with the half-blown rose. But Fortune, O,
double gilt of this opportunity you let time wash
Since I have your good leave to go away,
Fresher than e'er it was, and held for certain
He hath, my lord, but be you well assured,
Exeunt
Are not thine own so proper as to waste
Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer,
This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
To every varied object in his glance:
take-a your rapier, and come after my heel to the court.
So well thy words become thee as thy wounds,
Perchance, my lord, I show more craft than love,
What you commanded me, but by her woman
The heart of brothers govern in our loves
Exeunt Shepherd and Clown
Sir, I will eat no meat, I'll not drink, sir,
Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm!
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EDMUND
They have bereft, and do pronounce by me:
See, where he stands between two clergymen!
What, no more?
How ceremonious, solemn and unearthly
Wouldst thou have thy head broken?
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
And nothing marted with him. If your lass
You are undone, captain, all but your scarf, that
Is it come to this?
More daring or more bold, is now alive
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
come in our shadow, to scatter his crowns in the
Whither would you have me?
You never shall, so help you truth and God!
If you had sent but two hours before,--
I derived liberty.
Enter CLEOPATRA led by CHARMIAN and IRAS, EROS following
That never meat sweet-savor'd in thy taste,
Than a perpetual honour. Darest thou die?
he hath eaten: they are never curst but when they
You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither:
Above a twelvemonth. I have within my mind
We have deserved it.
Making, to take your imagination,
There is a lady in Verona here
wagers recorded.
Attest in little place a million,
I'll tell thee on the instant thou art then
Be chosen with proclamations to-day,
I will not trust you, I,
Nor do I think the man of safe discretion
Mistress Page at the door, sweating and blowing and
Brake off our business for the Holy Land.
[Within]  You shall not come to them.
Gentlemen, good den: a word with one of you.
your messenger came, in loving visitation was with
I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
Yet our old love made a particular force,
excommunication and meet me at the gaol.
to exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valour, to
Spurns down her late beloved, all his dependants
Does pity, as constrained blemishes,
Most wisely hath Ulysses here discover'd
For I have heard my grandsire say full oft,
Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts
And where thou now exact'st the penalty,
He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rock
is your daughter.
All souls that will be safe fly from my side,
So well, nothing so well, no, nor mean better:
Call all in all sufficient? Is this the nature
Upon's again.
Enter Corporal NYM and Lieutenant BARDOLPH
Hast thou slain Tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself?
Yet come again, for thou perhaps mayst move
Shall nothing wrong him. Thus it is, general.
performances are no kin together.
And bloody steel grasp'd in their ireful hands,
Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,
Yea, with a bridegroom's fresh alacrity,
Which art possess'd now to depose thyself.
One day he gives us diamonds, next day stones.
Farewell, proud Rome, till Lucius come again,
Re-enter SIR TOBY BELCH and FABIAN
Behold yond simpering dame,
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not,
To change a master. O, my fortunes have
Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool
Hath this extent, no more. Rude am I in my speech,
Nothing, my lord.
Heavens, can you suffer hell so to prevail?
So infinitely endear'd--
A noble company! what are their pleasures?
Augmenting it with tears.
ingrateful injury, to report otherwise, were a
I'll undertake to make thee Henry's queen,
I ne'er saw this before.
For he's a spirit of persuasion, only
Why stand we like soft-hearted women here,
O good old man, how well in thee appears
there is no slander in an allowed fool, though he do
And finds the testy gentleman so hot,
I doubt it not, sir, but you will curse your
Music
Hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult?
Enter FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Join with me to forbid him her resort,
Ay, my good lord.
But beggary and poor looks.
To-morrow toward London back again,
Nay, then I'll run.
But I'ld say he had not,
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
Stands in the gap and trade of moe preferments,
Or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths.
Where is thy husband now? where be thy brothers?
One that goes with him: I love him for his sake,
For such a warped slip of wilderness
Besides, this place is famous for the creatures
Walks apart
Give her an hundred marks. I'll to the queen.
Your grace is welcome to our town and us.
to sound Falstaff. If I find her honest, I lose not
But that we enter, as into our dukedom?
I'll not to Rome, I'll back with you, and pray you,
He was not so resolved when last we spake together.
Thy tooth is not so keen,
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
Were crack'd of kitchen-trolls, or his description
Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at
And they thy glory through my grief will show:
proclamation. Let him be but testimonied in his own
Would you expect? you are strangely troublesome.
And you that be the king's friends, follow me.
SCENE II. London. YORK'S garden.
Though you can guess what temperance should be,
SCENE III. A room in the Garter Inn.
Within the arras: when I strike my foot
Exeunt
When they do homage to this simple peasant.
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
Bearing the king in my behalf along,
What men have you lost, Fluellen?
Sir, I thank you.
In life's uncertain voyage, I will some kindness do them:
And yet I would not sleep: merciful powers,
Namely, some love that drew him oft from home.
South-sea of discovery, I prithee, tell me who is it
observance, engrossed opportunities to meet her,
Sooth, la, I'll help: thus it must be.
None but that ugly treason of mistrust,
Alas, I am the mother of these moans!
You kiss by the book.
You shall not have it, Diomed, faith, you shall not,
If thou have power to raise him, bring him hither,
You make strong party, or defend yourself
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
How! I inform them!
Losses their remedies. All weary and o'erwatch'd,
And love thee after. One more, and this the last:
To trust the mockery of unquiet slumbers
I swear 'tis better to be much abused
Good madam, patience.
Thus to retort your manifest appeal,
For we may pity, though not pardon thee.
well, but civil count, civil as an orange, and
Are men endued with worthy qualities:
To such proceeding
There's more depends on this than on the value.
Not decked with diamonds and Indian stones,
You sleeping safe, they bring to you unrest,
Countless and infinite, yet would I pay them!
The Duke of Alencon flieth to his side.
Most choice, forsaken, and most loved, despised!
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
Your brother kings and monarchs of the earth
And leave no memory of what it was!
Alas, poor lady, desolate and left!
That brought you home and boldly did outdare
Will he be satisfied.
Farewell: the leisure and the fearful time
That to my foes this body must be prey,
For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
Do so: I'll not be by.
Breathe out invectives 'gainst the officers.
Well, I'll not say what I intend for thee:
And in conclusion wins the king from her,
Nor understood none neither, sir.
To know, when two authorities are up,
Two thousand, fair woman: and I'll vouchsafe thee
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
Let me ask you one word in private.
Fair princess, you have lost much good sport.
Which is the high and mighty Agamemnon?
Now, as thou lovest me, do him not that wrong
Which held three dearly as his soul's redemption,
Here, there, and every where, he leaves and takes,
With hey, ho,  and c.
Though thou didst learn, had that in't which
Aiming at Silvia as a sweeter friend.
The night to the owl and morn to the lark
That creep like shadows by him and do sigh
How now! who is it?
the beds of eels as my giving out her beauty stir up
Do, with his smirch'd complexion, all fell feats
Having seen but him and Caliban: foolish wench!
To pity too.
These lazy knaves? Ye have made a fine hand, fellows:
Holds honour far more precious-dear than life.
For so he will'd it.
Where's hourly trouble for a minute's ease.
By duty ruminated.
Oppose against their wills.
Which you knew great, and to the hazard
Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
Sung by a fair queen in a summer's bower,
For Suffolk, he that can do all in all
Nay, it is ten times strange.
Have I commandment on the pulse of life?
DON
Because my power is weak and all ill left:
I dare be bound he's true and shall perform
O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low.
No, take more:
The like do you: so shall we pass along
I stand here for him: what to him from England?
I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness,
I'll find a fairer face not wash'd to-day.
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream,
word. Well, set thee down, sorrow! for so they say
Enter OLIVIA and Priest
Did run pure blood: and many lusty Romans
Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint,
dog that lives: my mother weeping, my father
Boy, Lucius! Varro! Claudius! Sirs, awake! Claudius!
These broken limbs again into one body,
And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death.
Should die for ever.
No, they cannot touch me for coining, I am the
thy voyage, lose thy master, and, in losing thy
When he was here,
Let us complain to them what fools were here,
play the workman. I dare speak it to myself--for it
Lucilius, do you the like, and let no man
But twenty times so much upon my wife.
To give me conquer'd Egypt for my son,
In a bad quarrel slain a virtuous son.
You must not dare, for shame, to talk of mercy,
Why do you cross me in this exigent?
Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
me,  but she's gone.
Intends his journey, and within three days
He is as horribly conceited of him, and pants and
his face, if he be not fellow with the best king,
A charge, Lord York, that I will see perform'd.
And he will bless that cross with other beating:
Beatrice,--
To be her mistress' mistress! the queen's queen!
My lord,--
With triumphs, mirth and rare solemnity.
Must either punish me, not being believed,
Thy dowerless daughter, king, thrown to my chance,
What, think you much to pay two thousand crowns,
Once did I get him bound and sent him home,
There is differency between a grub and a butterfly,
Re-enter BARDOLPH, with FORD disguised
Without indurance, further.
I am sorry you must hear: upon mine honour,
And liegemen to the Dane.
A kind of boy, a little scrubbed boy,
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
With meditations lawful?
Alas, what need you be so boisterous-rough?
And I will purge thy mortal grossness so
knives to cut one another's throats?
It fell upon a little western flower,
Kissing her
What is he that you ask for, niece?
And more convenient is he for my hand
Here is more news.
Why, there, there, there, there! a diamond gone,
The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
With the most noble blood of all this world.
Has paid his men their wages: he ne'er drinks,
Exeunt
With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
And yet as heavy as my weight should be.
God save your good worships! Marcius is coming
Pardon me, madam, I have unadvised
Who was it?
Exeunt
It is to see a nobleman want manners.
The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood
To have her name repeated: all her deserving
Good faith, I'll prove him,
That our beat water brought by conduits hither,
By heaven! my wrath shall far exceed the love
I, now the voice of the recorded law,
patent to offend, for, if it touch not you, it comes
Pray you, go, Master Page.
We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good.
desires, and fairies will not pinse you.
Not only my success in Libya, sir,
manner of a man to speak to a woman: for the form,--
A pretty period! Well, I guess the sequel,
I here confess myself the king of Tyre,
Singing
Unreverent Gloster!
Enter COUNTESS, LAFEU, and Clown
And I for Rosalind.
there is no evil angel but Love. Yet was Samson so
Have got by the late voyage is but merely
Fie, fie upon her!
If it do come to pass
down indirectly to the Jew's house.
Pardon, sir, error: he is not quantity enough for
He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in
You will demand of me why I do this?
The interruption of their churlish drums
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
And the deep-drawing barks do there disgorge
And hasten your return.
Ask him his name and orderly proceed
And, after some dispatch in hand at court,
Enter a Messenger
Great Agamemnon comes to meet us here.
Or make some sign how I may do thee ease:
Must fall out with men too: what the declined is
And in her eye there hath appear'd a fire,
for this uncivil rule: she shall know of it, by this hand.
I'll fight at sea.
And find the inheritance of this poor child,
Than women's are.
If we be English deer, be then in blood,
And, be assured, you'll find a difference,
Only for his possessions are so huge,
Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome?
And hears it roar beneath.
Nor scrape trencher, nor wash dish
What, are you married?
There's no hope she will return. I'll swear
Exeunt
Return us thanks.
I most fehemently desire you you will also look that
Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword:
Be not afeard, the isle is full of noises,
Aside
pausing
Entomb'd upon the very hem o' the sea,
What hath this day deserved? what hath it done,
father charged you in his will to give me good
Excellent, i' faith, of the chameleon's dish: I eat
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and the Officer
I dare say you love him not so ill, to wish him here
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
Is in his brain: he bites his lip, and starts,
As it doth well appear unto our state--
Than our foregoers: the mere word's a slave
Well, then, farewell.
Under a cloak that is of any length.
Sheathe your dagger:
had rather:' your husband's here at hand, bethink
Exeunt, marching
Bettering thy loss makes the bad causer worse:
Outside or inside, I will not return
in the view of the shepherd: so that all the
What say'st thou to her?
To underprop this action? Is't not I
What sayest thou?
And take your ring again, 'tis not yet won:
Hath not thy rose a canker, Somerset?
Came to my tent, and every one did threat
I'll go out then.
What, have I pinch'd you, Signior Gremio?
Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?
A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd
In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril!
Faith, I have been a truant in the law,
What reverence he did throw away on slaves,
What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
persuasion can with ease attempt you, I will go
Come on, sir.
But were our witty empress well afoot,
Rideth a puissant navy, to the shore
O, send some succor to the distress'd lord!
Quick, come!
The Grecian youths are full of quality,
If each of you should take this course, how many
I'll tell you in a little. The great duke
soft music playing, Gentleman, and others attending.
Now, for the love of Love and her soft hours,
It is not honesty in me to speak
Namely to appeal each other of high treason.
Exeunt
As who, my lord?
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
Soldiers, this day have you redeemed your lives,
Peace! we'll hear him.
Nor thou, nor these, confederates in the deed
ANTIPHOLUS
puts transgression to 't.
Out at mine eyes in tender womanish tears.
There is further compliment of leavetaking
As I would be forgiven: I forgive all,
Presented thee more hideous than thou art.
You do the nobler.
That is another simple sin in you, to bring the ewes
Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?
He fables not, I hear the enemy:
To Lewis the emperor, and Lewis the son
'Twas my inheritance, as the earldom was.
So said her woman, and that her sufferance made
like your old ling and your Isbels o' the court:
Nothing, madam.
To Gregory de Cassado, to conclude,
Thou art sure of me:--go, make money:--I have told
Know of the duke if his last purpose hold,
O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
Enter BUCKINGHAM and CLIFFORD, attended
hath something embolden'd me to this unseasoned
May be my friends. He's dead, I am only sorry
France is revolted from the English quite,
An plant this thorn, this canker, Bolingbroke?
He needs not, it is no hidden virtue in him.
The gods have well prevented it, and Rome
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Him that you term'd, sir, 'The good old lord Gonzalo,'
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness.
Dream of impediment! Let me have thy hand:
And, ere our coming, see thou shake the bags
The presence of a king engenders love
Marry, my lord, there is a nobleman of the court at
Come, bloody Clifford, rough Northumberland,
Pardon me, Proteus: all I can is nothing
Nothing but odds with England: to that end,
Love's stories written in love's richest book.
fellow of this temper, Kate, whose face is not worth
As any comer I have look'd on yet
Lo, I present your grace a traitor's head,
Not weighing well the end, if ever fearful
I will o'ertake thee, Cleopatra, and
That for this twelvemonth she'll not undertake
The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on:
Enter SIMONIDES, THAISA, Lords, and Attendants
Pattern'd by that the poet here describes,
Marry, here's grace and a cod-piece, that's a wise
no. And, my lord, he desires you, that if the king
Jack Cade, the Duke of York hath taught you this.
May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy,
neighbours, is grown into an unspeakable estate.
Manner'd as she is born.
O, you have made good work!
Why, that was when
Indeed, left nothing fitting for the purpose
yet, had he mistook him and sent to me, I should
Be counterpoised with such a petty sum!
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
To make itself, in thee, fair and admired!
I'll bear them hence, but from their ashes shall be rear'd
Drink the free air.
Exit THURIO
That I have passed.
I am not a day of season,
Northumberland, then present, wept to see it.
I tell thee, Pole, when in the city Tours
One: tell.
How can it be?
If you'll avouch 'twas wisdom Paris went--
My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to
So levied as before, against the Polack:
How to cut off some charge in legacies.
And here's to right our gentle-hearted king.
Out of your grace, devise, ordain, impose
No servant of thy master's. Against self-slaughter
I am glad to see your ladyship.
Exeunt
I pray you, have your remembrance, child,
The thieves are all scatter'd and possess'd with fear
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
Fine, i'faith!
It shall content me best: be gentle to her.
No,
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Would win some words of him.
And, like a rat without a tail,
confess, and be hanged for his labour,--first, to be
Good morrow, my good lords.
again, and flourish with the highest. Therefore
That I was sent for nothing but a rope!
This hurt you see, striving to apprehend him.
Father, you cannot disinherit me:
I would dissemble with my nature where
It is the most impenetrable cur
To beat us down, the which are down already,
Their precious stones new lost: became his guide,
cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
Another general shout!
Hence with thy stripes, begone!
Or, with the rest, where is your darling Rutland?
have a friend here convey, convey him out. Be not
O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
My most exquisite Sir Topas!
So is the equal of this fell war.
And AEsculapius guide us!
You have mistook, my lady,
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
That man i' the world who shall report he has
Bind up those tresses. O, what love I note
Then know, it is your fault that you resign
would of--I'll beat him, an if I could but meet him again.
Which, I beseech you, call a virtuous sin--
What's yet behind, that's meet you all should know.
DON
the storm. And art thou living, Stephano? O
is prodigious, there will come some change, the sun
That which he is, new o'er: and he is one
SCENE I. Before PAGE'S house.
Or die in the adventure, be my helps,
As I have heard my father speak himself,
With one consent to have her so bestow'd,
Cobweb: if I cut my finger, I shall make bold with
That I mean to thee. Tell thy mistress how
Why, gentlemen, you do me double wrong,
If God will be revenged for this deed.
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come,
With best advantage will deceive the time,
Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed.
high-resolved men, bent to the spoil,
As ravenous fishes, do a vessel follow
Between the floods of Sala and of Elbe,
And such a flood of greatness fell on you,
He neither does nor shall.
If you might please to stretch it.
A pox on't, let it go, 'tis but a drum.
And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife
And for your grace, and you, my noble lords.
For I have murdered where I should not kill.
When she does praise me grieves me. I have done
--with your sun-beamed eyes--
And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
for that I insinuate, or toaze from thee thy
Farewell, good brother: we shall thrive, I trust.
Falstaff!--Fast asleep behind the arras, and
with garlands!
I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd
encountered: I hope it is not so low with him as
Enter SIR ANDREW
To North
What, in our house?
And the strong course of my authority
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
To daff't for our repose, shall hear a storm.
Jove!
Post I in this design: well may you, sir,
Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural
Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
For by my scouts I was advertised
Twice treble shame on Angelo,
Bonos dies, Sir Toby: for, as the old hermit of
Gentlemen all,--alas, what shall I say?
Unless by robbing of your friends and us.
As thou dost swallow up this good king's blood
But all the whole inheritance I give
And, like a thief, to come to rob my grounds,
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY, JAQUES behind
And princes not doin g so are like to gnats,
That I should be attach'd in Ephesus,
You see we have burnt our cheeks: strong Enobarb
And very wisely threat before you sting.
Enter HELICANUS, with other Lords
I would learn that, for, by the
whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke,
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
Will you tell me that?
Out, alas, sir! cozenage, mere cozenage!
have been as good as my word.
This, or else nothing, will inherit her.
I wonder that you will still be talking, Signior
What England says, say briefly, gentle lord,
To FLAVIUS
SCENE VI. Before Macbeth's castle.
wide of his own respect.
Sought to be king o'er her.
O, it is monstrous, monstrous:
RICHARD
Stands apart
Strength match'd with strength, and power confronted power:
to him. But I can tell you one thing, my lord, and
Twenty-three years, and saw myself unbreech'd,
Real necessities, and give way the while
A crack, madam.
Deprived of honour and inheritance.
Enter CASSIO
Exeunt
taken against me a most just exception, but yet, I
Come, come, when saw you my father last?
However, but a folly bought with wit,
so often blushed to acknowledge him, that now I am
shepherd for food follows not the sheep: thou for
And brought me garlands, Griffith, which I feel
Even now, now, very now, an old black ram
Ay, indeed, sir.
No, we detest such vile base practises.
Of any thing the image tell me that
Enter MARCUS
I'll strike thee dead. Put up thy sword betime,
Comes all the praises that I now bestow,
For what I have I need not to repeat,
To Painter
What is the matter, ho? who is't that cried?
A very dishonest paltry boy, and more a coward than
Look, look! O heavy day!
Can trace me in the tedious ways of art
Yet thus far, Griffith, give me leave to speak him,
That England, that was wont to conquer others,
Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
change for youth: when she is sated with his body,
and he's a man good enough, he's one o' the soundest
Presented to my knife his throat: I took him,
he cannot lie with his neighbour's wife, but it
Yet heavens have glory for this victory!
Well, to our work alive. What do you think
call me knave. Begin, fool: it begins 'Hold thy peace.'
the reason why they are not so punished and cured
Turning the accomplishment of many years
Proceed no straiter 'gainst our uncle Gloucester
To stop the rumor, and allay those tongues
SCENE III. The field of battle.
Amen. Dear goddess, hear that prayer of the people!
Hug their diseased perfumes, and have forgot
No, I will weep no more. In such a night
To EMILIA
The freezing hours away? We have seen nothing,
By the pattern of mine own thoughts I cut out
And this, and this, the greatest discords be
His mansion and his titles in a place
Are with a most indissoluble tie
Helen, it is not so.
At the hedge-corner, in the coldest fault?
To have a godly peace concluded of
Sweet lovers love the spring.
Where thou thyself dost air,--the queen o' the sky,
their father,
Enter Outlaws, with DUKE and THURIO
He will have other means to cut you off.
No, my lord.
As well of glib and slippery creatures as
For by my mother I derived am
Sir, I do know you,
Therefore, we banish you our territories:
Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
I pray you, bear vitness that me have stay six or
Sir Toby, I must be round with you. My lady bade me
What I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps,
Re-enter DOLABELLA
marvel how the fishes live in the sea.
That this my mother's son was none of his,
The sons of York, thy betters in their birth,
By my life, this is my lady's hand these be her
If there be devils, would I were a devil,
So it must fall out
[Aside]  He takes her by the palm: ay, well said,
You came not of one mother then, it seems.
Will you sit down?
But that the guilt of murder bucklers thee
Exit Page
He set up his bills here in Messina and challenged
Well, Mistress Ford, what of her?
For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
Well, bring our lady hither to our sight,
Almost to acknowledge hers.
I'll have my bond, I will not hear thee speak:
They shall be ready at your highness' will
Into three limits very equally:
old time, which we may name tough.
O masters, if I were disposed to stir
Many dream not to find, neither deserve,
Ay, my lord.
All fears attending on so dire a project.
We are the greater poll, and in true fear
Music. Tables set out: Servants attending.  Enter divers Lords, Senators and others, at several doors
So, on your patience evermore attending,
Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image
Since that respects of fortune are his love,
Enter BERTRAM and the two French Lords
Hark, Tranio! thou may'st hear Minerva speak.
The higher powers forbid!
Never.
Put on the gown, stand naked and entreat them,
swear, and my father's soul, the work ish ill done,
For you, most wicked sir, whom to call brother
The bottom of your purpose.
Your most dear daughter--
And none so poor to do him reverence.
variance. Antony will use his affection where it is:
Come, the full stop.
Exit Romeo
And that I did deny my wife and house.
I pray thee, leave me to my self to-night,
For you, Prince Bassianus, I have pass'd
arms! Warm o' my troth! I do now let loose
The cruelty and envy of the people,
politic? am I subtle? am I a Machiavel? Shall I
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
He drinks
But bootless is your sight: he will not speak To any.
fire-shovel: I knew by that piece of service the
And I, that haply take them from him now,
Now the gods keep you!
Let me excuse me, and believe me so,
O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voice
And I will use the olive with my sword,
I' the commonwealth I would by contraries
Indeed, my lord, I think it be two o'clock.
'Seese' and 'putter'! have I lived to stand at the
I will fly, like a dog, the heels o' the ass.
That thou shalt know. Trojan, he is awake,
Let us leave here, gentlemen.
Exeunt
I was beset with shame and courtesy,
That hath dismissed us from our stewardship,
No, I will speak.
Is my lord angry?
Enter Chorus
beseech you, be ruled by your well-willers. I will
A nurse of me. Lord, how your favour's changed
I do believe thee: live.
him.
As if he were the right Vincentio
A hundred thousand crowns, and not demands,
I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
withal, and defy the surgeon?
This gentleman is happily arrived,
I will go meet the ladies. This Volumnia
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
Be thy mouth or black or white,
But if the prince do live, let us salute him,
I an itching palm!
O, be to me, though thy hard heart say no,
In every good thing.
Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, behind
Misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt
the flow o' the Nile
Beneath the fall I have.
Like foggy south puffing with wind and rain?
Falstaff's boy with her! Good plots, they are laid,
Those that would mischief me than those that do!
Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.
The thought of my revenges that way
DON
Moreover, thou hast put them in prison, and because
Many a widow's husband grovelling lies,
Dost thou prate, rogue?
Which is not owed to you!
And fit for great employment, worthy lord.
But in the presence of the prioress:
When I have fought with Pembroke and his fellows,
To do him justice and revenge on you.
Will none but Herne the hunter serve your turn?
Will in his brinish bowels swallow him.
What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?
Stands in attainder of eternal shame:
And my integrity to heaven, is all
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
and be gone from Troilus: 'twill be his death,
should flout him, if he writ to me, yea, though I
Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself!
madness, which was, to forswear the full stream of
No, no, my heart will burst, and if I speak:
The business present: 'tis his highness' pleasure
It is not so, thou hast misspoke, misheard:
call fair. She is drowned already, sir, with salt
Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
He's coming, I perceive 't.
Let's see what they be: read them.
And all the world was of my father's mind:
SCENE IV. Another part of the same street, before the house of BRUTUS.
And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you send,
'Twas a rough night.
These things indeed you have articulate,
To quicken your increase, I will beget
Now will I in, to take some privy order,
The very mercy of the law cries out
And spend her strength with over-matching waves.
As the event stamps them: but they have a good
Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
[Reads the epitaph]  'Here lies a
Be his own carver and cut out his way,
The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing.
late is to be up late.
He falls to such perusal of my face
'Tis Troilus' fault: come, come, to field with him.
Now in good time, here comes the duke himself.
A retreat sounded
I know this, and thus I challenge it.
Sits in the wind against me.
Thy heart-blood I will have for this day's work.
Cassio, my lord, hath kill'd a young Venetian
Of all mad matches never was the like.
Left his to the worthiest, so his successor
you can move him.
Fie, fie, Gratiano! where are all the rest?
Instruct my daughter how she shall persever,
SCENE IV. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
They have done my poor house grace, for which I pay 'em
Lords, I will meet him at Saint Edmundsbury:
The unowed interest of proud-swelling state.
ANTIPHOLUS
To bring him here alone, although perhaps
Whom God preserve better than you would wish!--
their wills: fill thy purse with money:--the food
Ay, but I hope your highness shall have his.
Exit PORTIA
Stand in their ancient strength.
SCENE IV. Before the castle.
common herd was glad he refused the crown, he
Exeunt
In love and service to you evermore.
Killing them twice. O, give us leave, great king,
Exit HELENA
second conference, and I will bring from thence
Your lips will feel them the sooner. Shallow again.
Nay, by Saint Jamy,
I must entreat of you some of that money.
Nor change my countenance for this arrest:
And, from the extremest upward of thy head
And I do fearfully believe 'tis done,
Then, Aaron, arm thy heart, and fit thy thoughts,
I shall unfold to thee, as we are going
Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!
Is Caesar with Antonius prized so slight?
ACT IV
Whose fulness of perfection lies in him.
With boot, and such addition as your honours
Nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear.
In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
You may be armed and appointed well:
We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.
And thou this day hadst kept thy chair in peace.
Have all forsook me, hath devour'd the rest,
Than what befalls myself. You stand amazed,
And shortly must I fell it: tell my friends,
Their purposes toward Cyprus. Signior Montano,
In strange eruptions, oft the teeming earth
Who hath a story ready for your ear.
Come on, sir, I shall now put you to the height of
courted now with a double occasion, gold and a means
letter: it was given me by Costard, and sent me
Some men there are love not a gaping pig,
Before you can say 'come' and 'go,'
And rail upon the hostess of the house,
To him, and to his substitutes.
Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
Roderigo, if thou hast that in thee indeed, which I
High-witted Tamora to gloze with all:
To knit in her their best perfections.
Well, madam, and in health.
I cannot tell
good of Rome, I have the same dagger for myself,
And bestial appetite in change of lust,
Achieved her mistress.
Were there necessity in your request, although
And now you know my meaning,
to three kings in a forenoon, and widow them all:
This cannot be Hector.
Alarums: excursions. Enter THERSITES
By Signior Angelo.
Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land,
Lavinia, you are not displeased with this?
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
what shame else belongs to't. To him will I present
'spare not me?' Indeed your 'O Lord, sir!' is very
If opportunity and humblest suit
And lie pavilion'd in the fields of France.
ignorant, call I the deer the princess killed a pricket.
Art thou Timandra?
There was a Brutus once that would have brook'd
To say 'she is a goodly lady,' and
To murder her I married.
As good as promise.
We three are married, but you two are sped.
Are meet for plucking up, and therefore mine.
To better vantage.
I never did repent for doing good,
The emperor's coming in behalf of France,
Outworths a noble's blood.
It did take place, 'I do,' quoth he, 'perceive
Why, then, lead on. O, that a man might know
Come hither, Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford the honest
and ladies too, they will not let me have all fool
As what I think might be, but what I know
Ere human statute purged the gentle weal,
If music be the food of love, play on,
And humbly now upon my bended knee,
And to set on this wretched woman here
The ministers for the purpose hurried thence
The violence of either thee becomes,
'Faith, by no means, she has so strictly tied
out of the 'Hundred Merry Tales:'--well this was
Enter two Gentlemen
but he'll be meet with you, I doubt it not.
I doubt it not, and all these woes shall serve
Detest my baseness. I, that with my sword
Quicken with kissing: had my lips that power,
What then, do you see?
you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
prince and Claudio, as,--in love of your brother's
So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend.
What would my lord?
For every word: he is so kind that he now
or unsafe circumstance--What can be said? Nothing
As if my brother lived: I partly think
What have I kept back?
To pluck his indignation on thy head
Enter CYMBELINE, Lords, PISANIO, and Attendants
Awakes me all the enrolled penalties
And here comes Clifford to deny their bail.
His gracious pleasure any way therein:
To Stanley's regiment, bid him bring his power
As I have received it.
Here let them end it, and God defend the right!
Poor painted queen, vain flourish of my fortune!
Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world
Within this hour my man shall be with thee
You have begot me, bred me, loved me: I
the owner.
things go.
them. I hope I need not to advise you further, but
So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin:
What thinkest thou of his opinion?
The spinsters, carders, fullers, weavers, who,
Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart,
in love. If thou wilt, go with me to the alehouse,
Let kings assemble, for my grief's so great
Either of king or council, when you went
Why, no, I say, distrustful recreants!
wills. If the balance of our lives had not one
art as honest a true fellow as any is in Bohemia.
By the north pole, I do challenge thee.
will think of thee at court.
Thou divine Imogen, what thou endurest,
Many can brook the weather that love not the wind.
Peace, fool: he's not thy kinsman.
yourself good and not to grace me. Believe then, if
And private in his chamber pens himself,
And when we have our armours buckled on,
Enter DON JOHN and CONRADE
They do consume the thing that feeds their fury:
I loved the maid I married, never man
commander, and that with his own hand he slew the
There shall your swords and lances arbitrate
The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
Yet to be known shortens my made intent:
Plight me the full assurance of your faith,
I dare make his answer, none.
And venture madly on a desperate mart.
tap: said I well, bully Hector?
The rebels are in Southwark, fly, my lord!
very low, my bond to the Jew is forfeit, and since
And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge
And, I'll warrant her, fun of game.
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Truly, sir, and pleasure will be paid, one time or another.
To look like her are chimney-sweepers black.
fardel will make him scratch his beard.
the incursions, thou strikest as slow as another.
Shall cumber all the parts of Italy,
or, Francis, o' Thursday, or indeed, Francis, when
Whose was it?
But at this instant he is sick my lord,
Dear gentlewoman,
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
How much in duty I am bound to both.
You know that you are Brutus that speak this,
currish thanks is good enough for such a present.
Two households, both alike in dignity,
And knew no other kin.
As thieves to keepers.
The sacred honour of himself, his queen's,
I love the king your father, and yourself,
Madam wife, they say that I have dream'd
Who hast the memory of Hermione,
What is the matter?
I find at such proud rate, that it out-speaks
Wanton in fulness, seek to hide themselves
Laus Deo, bene intelligo.
Opening the leaden casket
I sought a husband, in which labour
A million fail, confounding oath on oath.
Storm still
In thee't had been good service. Thou must know,
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
'Tis a quick lie, sir, 'twill away gain, from me to
You have enscheduled briefly in your hands.
yet: suffer us to famish, and their store-houses
not thou, when thou art king, hang a thief.
name is Tranio.
Her eyes myself, could win me to believe,
Throwing down a glove
Art thou contented, Jew? what dost thou say?
Your right depends not on his life or death.
Exeunt
Enter SAMPSON and GREGORY, of the house of Capulet, armed with swords and bucklers
Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings
This is the prettiest low-born lass that ever
There's no offence, my lord.
thou wouldst sin the faster. Thou givest so long,
At our great bidding?
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
To make the truth appear where it seems hid,
hand, de fingres, et de nails.
To do that thing that ends all other deeds,
Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
Angelo,
Enter the DUKE, the Magnificoes, ANTONIO, BASSANIO, GRATIANO, SALERIO, and others
I have, thou gallant Trojan, seen thee oft
Doth any one accuse York for a traitor?
How furious and impatient they be,
Hear the king's pleasure, cardinal: who commands you
if matters should be looked into, for their own
rare enginer! If Troy be not taken till these two
Exit Attendant
And take your good grace from me? Heaven witness,
Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal:
Demetrius and Egeus, go along:
Learn more than thou trowest,
Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten,
This is the very painting of your fear:
Collected choicely, from each county some,
To bear a poison, I would temper it,
To bring thee to the gallows, not the font.
We will not meddle with him till he come, for his
Bushy, what news?
Which is our honour, bitter torture shall
They say he cried out of sack.
If wealthily, then happily in Padua.
mark the sequel, Master Brook: I suffered the pangs
Me of my lawful pleasure she restrain'd
You hold a fair assembly, you do well, lord:
My daughter will I question how she loves you,
ANTIPHOLUS
Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
Thus says AEneas, one that knows the youth
To show him what a beggar his heart is,
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
To RATCLIFF
Into your favour.
Our cannons' malice vainly shall be spent
'Warwick, revenge! brother, revenge my death!'
Exit Launcelot
Thy sorrow in my breast. Come, ladies, go,
Shall we resolve to woo these girls of France?
Dishonour not her honourable name,
Most veritable, therefore look to't well.
Shrunk to this little measure? Fare thee well.
The morning wears, 'tis time we were at church.
As thou art liege-man to us, that thou carry
Are you acquainted with the difference
This one hand yet is left to cut your throats,
Each object with a joy: the counterchange
By which he did ascend. So Caesar may.
The fatal colours of our striving houses:
Could not again undo: it was mine art,
True, noble prince.
Keeps Death his court and there the antic sits,
Master, I am here entered in bond for you.
Do you but strike the blow.
Well, sir, what answer made the belly?
thy smiles become thee well, therefore in my
My life as soon: I do defy thee, France.
Prithee, listen well,
SCENE III. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
I would speak blasphemy ere bid you fly:
Too good to be so and too bad to live,
That, in the working of your own affections,
pleasure: if your love do not persuade you to come,
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
Cry you mercy, I took you for a joint-stool.
I with great truth catch mere simplicity,
That hath abused and dishonour'd me
Ay, forsooth, and then you may come and see the
Thy heart is big, get thee apart and weep.
How now, my charge!
Ere thou hadst power or we had cause of fear,
Thou on him leaning, and all Troy on thee,
And therefore in this city will I stay
Meantime receive such welcome at my hand
Let him die for't.
Give me a staff of honour for mine age,
Thee thither in a whirlwind. If thou wilt,
brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.
Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that
Not so allured to feed.
A pair of worthier sons.
Hath in the tables of his law commanded
but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
As touching France, to give a greater sum
Why, right, you are i' the right,
Than in the glass of Pandar's praise may be,
Yours, whom in constancy you think stands so safe.
What instance of the contrary?
All turn'd to heresy? Away, away,
Than lying, vainness, babbling, drunkenness,
hear from you.
What, Patch-breech, I say!
PAROLLES.'
Yea, my lord, I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on
The great Achilles, whom opinion crowns
Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence attended, the two Frenchmen, with a troop of soldiers.
By three and twenty thousand of the French
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams,
know you the reason?
Since every Jack became a gentleman
Come thronging soft and delicate desires,
No sooner was I crept out of my cradle
Swift as a shadow, short as any dream,
move and what he hears may be believed, that the
That's on some shallow story of deep love:
Let it flow this way, my good lord.
In following this usurping Henry.
reproof and rebuke from every ear that heard it.
Thy mother's of my generation: what's she, if I be a dog?
Which is indeed but sign. That you shall surely find him,
Did I redeem, a wreck past hope he was:
Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French,
for him. Cotus!
When they pass back from the christening.
feeling of thy speech: I will, out of thine own
The king will labour still to save his life,
Then he was urged to tell my tale again,
There is expectance here from both the sides,
And you did swear that oath at Doncaster,
as I am a gentleman, I will live to be thankful to
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Exeunt
prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm
Patroclus' wounds have roused his drowsy blood,
hereafter, rather than story him in his own hearing.
To appoint some of your council presently
Sir John Falstaff!
Or fortune given me measure of revenge.
Which, by the sign thereof was termed so.
abruption? What too curious dreg espies my sweet
Those are they
A gentleman that well deserves a help:
You have seen nothing then?
If this be magic, let it be an art
O, sir, a courtesy
Had I but died an hour before this chance,
What mean you, sir? for God's sake, hold your hands!
These tidings nip me, and I hang the head
Which he so sets at nought.
fable: some certain special honours it pleaseth his
A woman, and thy aunt, great king, 'tis I.
[Aside]  Heaven, that I had thy head! he has found
Methought this staff, mine office-badge in court,
If thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive
He'll beat Aufidius 'head below his knee
Good even, Casca: brought you Caesar home?
Of great Apollo's priest, and that, since then,
For them! I cannot do it to the gods,
By seven o'clock I'll get you such a ladder.
Take no repulse, whatever she doth say,
Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace,
Such a nature,
My Lord of Burgundy, we'll take your oath,
And be undone by 'em!
To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
What's his weapon?
'Tis sin to flatter, 'good' was little better:
That Henry, sole possessor of my love,
You may as well use question with the wolf
Who hath measured the ground?
That mightily deceives you.
which should
I'll rest betide the chamber where thou liest!
Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich, being poor,
Alas!
I would not tell you what I would, my lord:
As had she studied to misuse me so.
Alarum. Enter FALSTAFF, solus
For 'tis no trusting to yond foolish lout,
Sometime in Greece,--
Seeks to take off by treason's knife.
Get linen: now this matter must be look'd to,
All this from my remembrance brutish wrath
own defence?
Upon malicious bravery, dost thou come
O Lord, sir, it were pity you should get your living
You have some cause, they have not.
To a Servant
My lord, you do not well in obstinacy
As words to little purpose.
The direful spectacle of the wreck, which touch'd
Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie,
Trumpets sound. Enter REIGNIER, below
You stubborn ancient knave, you reverend braggart,
His horses go about.
Seem'd not to strike, but smooth: but thou
Hold your peaces.
Dost thou hear me, Hal?
Has business at his house, for all shall stay:
Ever at the best, hearing well of your lordship.
Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
And loving farewell of our several friends.
So say I too, sir.
Hark you, sir, you mean not her to--
That any of these bolder vices wanted
A caudle, ho!
Prince Dauphin, you shall stay with us in Rouen.
To swear by him whom I protest to love,
Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be
And then I'll bring thee to the present business
I have offended reputation,
Shake in their fear and with pale policy
By this, I hope, she hath a son for me.
For those that mingle reason with your passion
Even in the instant of repair and health,
Let us be beaten, if we cannot fight.
And the issue there create
And only stays but to behold the face
singleness.
O miserable age! virtue is not regarded in handicrafts-men.
SCENE II. A field of battle near Barnet.
SCENE V. A room in the Garter Inn.
SCENE III. The British camp near Dover.
They sell the pasture now to buy the horse,
wiser, the waywarder: make the doors upon a woman's
When therewithal we shall have cause of state
And make them tame to their obedience!
Cassio shall have my place. And, sir, tonight,
What we can do to him, though now the time
[Within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
O, sir, you must: and therefore I beseech you
To guard a title that was rich before,
At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
himself! Well, the gods are above, time must friend
By what? by any other house or person?
My life stands in the level of your dreams,
To call me to your senate, I'll deliver
But see, his face is black and full of blood,
And on all sides the authority allow'd,
What say you to young Master Fenton? he capers, he
Be free and healthful,--so tart a favour
Pointing to the Child in the arms of an Attendant
The king hath run bad humours on the knight, that's
For him I imitate: O, if it prove,
In bearing thus the absence of your lord.
A woman, that is like a German clock,
God help, poor souls, how idly do they talk!
The slave of nature and the son of hell!
Is't true? can't be?
Here, Peter Quince.
I nightly lodge her in an upper tower,
He'ld make an end of thy posterity.
Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
Or, had he heard the heavenly harmony
tender, and they'll be for the flowery way that
women, he was not inclined that way.
ACT IV
To mark the full-fraught man and best indued
Enter KATHARINE, Dowager, sick, led between GRIFFITH, her gentleman usher, and PATIENCE, her woman
Those suns of glory, those two lights of men,
You should then have accosted her, and with some
Not a man of those but he hath the wit to lose his hair.
Yes.
For our affairs in hand: if that come short,
Till it o'er-run the stew, laws for all faults,
When thou hold'st up thy hand: O, let me kiss
Because she's kin to me, therefore she's not so fair
I fear the trust Othello puts him in.
With cloth of any colour.
Why then, God's soldier be he!
equivocal companion is this!
Persever in that clear way thou goest,
please you,
I am slain by a fair cruel maid.
To MARDIAN
Exit Provost
Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
Into the vale of years,--yet that's not much--
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
You did mistake.
Charles Delabreth, high constable of France,
Preserver of my father, now of me,
Be quiet and depart: thou shalt not have him.
come, shall we about it?
Shall all be done by the rule. Good night, dear lady.
And stain'd the beauty of a fair queen's cheeks
That, like a rude and savage man of Inde,
Master Three-pile the mercer, for some four suits of
'Tis a spirit: sometime't appears like a lord,
I am dying, Egypt, dying, only
Who shall reward you better for my life
Then you should hate Rome, as he does. Can you,
service, let us talk in good earnest: is it
Why did I marry? This honest creature doubtless
Thus it goes:--
You are resolute, then?
And spurn in pieces posts of adamant:
They say, she hath abjured the company
'Zounds, sir, you are one of those that will not
My lord?
What then he said, so he unsay it now.
In voices well divulged, free, learn'd and valiant,
'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old,
I am loath to beat thee.
To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel:
good clothes: there's no further necessity of
Something I can command. As I walk thither,
If thou be'st yet a fresh uncropped flower,
And should he doubt it, as no doubt he doth,
O heavy times, begetting such events!
Tennis-balls, my liege.
And, for myself, most part of all this night,
Merchant of Syracuse, plead no more,
But for the rest, you tell a pedigree
To knot and gender in! Turn thy complexion there,
I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight,
Shall yield them little, tell the constable.
And we, like friends, will straightway go together.
To me, should utter, with demure confidence
till the bell have told eleven. Heaven bless the
To think of what a noble strain you are,
But do not speak to me. Lead me to my chamber.
testify your bounty, I thank you, you have testerned
On ember-eves and holy-ales,
And therefore may be broke without offence.
And be a happy mother by the deed.
Enter SOMERSET, with drum and colours
It should none spare that come within his power.
Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain,
No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon
Where we left him, on the sea. We there him lost,
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
Are spectacled to see him: your prattling nurse
I'll starve ere I'll rob a foot further. An 'twere
So much as frown on you.
My dukedom to a beggarly denier,
Your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify
The county will be here with music straight,
you are asked this question next, say 'a
With purpose to be dress'd in an opinion
But, orderly to end where I begun,
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
And meeting him will tell him that my lady
Ere such another Julius. Britain is
Nothing ill come near thee!
Where is that slave, thy brother? where is he,
The servants of the duke, and my lieutenant.
O rarely base!
Effect it with some care, that he may prove
When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear
And set me on the proof. So the gods bless me,
Containing her affection unto Benedick.
To help Cominius.
of the forest and to couple us.
Exit AEdile
And mock'd the dead bones that lay scatter'd by.
ISABELLA is carried off guarded, and MARIANA comes forward
He will not say so.
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
shall use his foil and target, the lover shall not
And charged him with a thousand marks in gold,
On this side my hand, and on that side yours.
To bid AEneas tell the tale twice o'er,
Every offence is not a hate at first.
How much unlike art thou to Portia!
An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
and, which is more, a householder, and, which is
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
Hautboys and torches. Enter a Sewer, and divers  Servants with dishes and service, and pass over the stage. Then enter MACBETH
Exeunt DOGBERRY and VERGES
The unviolated honour of your wife.
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
Pale Hecate's offerings, and wither'd murder,
Come on, obey:
Hopkins, that made this mischief.
This argues what her kind of life hath been,
So hence! Be thou the trumpet of our wrath
that he is, saving your reverence, a whoremaster,
No, not these twenty years.
But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
one sorel.
And, farewell, friends,
In this same interlude it doth befall
Now, by the honour of my ancestry,
Go with him, sirrah.
And from thy hated presence part I so:
Rugby, my rapier!
That is new-trimm'd, but benefit no further
Owy, cuppele gorge, permafoy,
Were I the wearer of Antonius' beard,
And when you do them--
Especially against his very friend.
I took him sleeping,--that is finish'd too,--
I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
painted cloth, where the glutton's dogs licked his
Most serpent-like, upon the very heart:
None, Brutus, none.
More than a lodged hate and a certain loathing
Are safely come to road.
thine own work? wilt thou whip thine own faults in
Unless a thousand marks be levied,
ANTIPHOLUS
Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.
What is not holy, that we swear not by,
Asses, fools, dolts! chaff and bran, chaff and bran!
Thou know'st already.
'Tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to
An alarum. Re-enter TALBOT, BURGUNDY, and the rest
[Kneeling]  Long live Queen Margaret, England's
SCENE IV. A street.
Exit an Attendant
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET,  PRINCE EDWARD, CLIFFORD, and NORTHUMBERLAND, with drum and trumpets
Thus far,
Why then, your ambition makes it one, 'tis too
That I should neither sell nor give nor lose it.
Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects.
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
What kind of god art thou, that suffer'st more
Ay, if a' have no man's blood in's belly than will
He did behave his anger, ere 'twas spent,
trempling of mind! I shall be glad if he have
And dash'd the brains out, had I so sworn as you
The action of good women: there is hope
But that your royalty
The ways are dangerous.
And she is mine, and all my right of her
more wit than he, to take a fault upon me that he did,
So thou apprehendest it: take it for thy labour.
Asleep, my love?
a great man, I'll warrant, I know by the picking
us! it is a world to see. Well said, i' faith,
No doubt he will requite it. This is noted,
touch, a quick venue of wit! snip, snap, quick and
Put him to choler straight: he hath been used
But to be free and bounteous to her mind:
Come hither, little kinsman, hark, a word.
Should by the cormorant belly be restrain'd,
And whatsoever cunning fiend it was
Dies
Very well, my lord
But was not this nigh shore?
It must be an answer of most monstrous size that
To seal love's bonds new-made, than they are wont
From our brother England?
And, to conclude, reproach and beggary
As double as the duke's: he will divorce you,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You are too cold.
Proceed.
Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all
Know his gross patchery, love him, feed him,
Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke.
You have been a scourge to her enemies, you have
Perdie, your doors were lock'd and you shut out.
Whom Fortune with her ivory hand wafts to her,
Silver'd o'er, and so was this.
Alas, master, I know not.
Now presently I'll give her father notice
How oft when men are at the point of death
My fortunes to your service, which are here
And so repose, sweet gold, for their unrest
Honest! ay, honest.
Exit
doing much alone. You talk of pride: O that you
indeed, for I love thee against my will.
I would not hear your enemy say so,
Thou speakest wonders.
The key whereof myself have ever kept,
Then they could smile and fawn upon his debts
He came in thunder, his celestial breath
The monk might be deceived, and that 'twas dangerous for him
Enter DUKE ORSINO, CURIO, and other Lords, Musicians attending
With clog of conscience and sour melancholy
To ally my rages and revenges with
Ay, but when?
We are descried, they'll mock us now downright.
Ever in France shall be kept festival:
Fathers that, like so many Alexanders,
I then, all smarting with my wounds being cold,
Enter PUBLIUS, BRUTUS, LIGARIUS, METELLUS, CASCA, TREBONIUS, and CINNA
And be her sense but as a monument,
Is not this well? Come, my sweet Kate:
Pursued him still: and, three nights after this,
Who all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
No bourn 'twixt his and mine, yet were it true
Vouchsafe my labour, and long live your lordship!
Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail
A holy day shall this be kept hereafter:
His lady banish'd, and a limb lopp'd off.
Not portable, lie under this report:
Spoke like a sprightful noble gentleman.
be both at once delivered.
I know she is come to pray for your foul sin.
O Lord, have mercy on us, wretched sinners!
Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
Could great men thunder
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
The small'st opinion on my least misuse?
Would I had never seen her.
[Aside to MENAS]  I think thou'rt mad.
By all the gods that Romans bow before,
Lock'd in her monument. She had a prophesying fear
Well, march we on,
the church.
No, sir.
Why, what's the matter? does he rave?
Pope Innocent, I do demand of thee.
found it, and there an end.
Hath overta'en mine act.
In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted,
Know that our griefs are risen to the top,
Exit
Here stands my other son, a banished man,
O heavens!
To take a note of what I stand in need of,
From our free person she should be confined,
Which they distil now in the curbed time,
ACT II
Enter EARL OF SALISBURY
Come now, what masques, what dances shall we have,
Seeing this goodly vessel ride before us,
And his comrades, that daff'd the world aside,
Where should I lose that handkerchief, Emilia?
Love my wife!
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
I know you think to dine with me to-day,
had he done to you?
I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of
We'll burn his body in the holy place,
Sermons in stones and good in every thing.
Not that I pity Henry's misery,
Sent from your brother, Marquess Montague:
May catch a wrench--would all were well--'tis pity,--
for I was told you were in a consumption.
Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy,
I'll prove it on thy heart,
all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such
From the inward of thee? One, but painted thus,
To counterfeit oppression of such grief
Let thy courtesies alone, they are scurvy ones.
Though destiny say no. Be merry, gentle,
Why do you make such faces? When all's done,
Is his complexion, and faster than his tongue
And I'll be bid by thee.
The residence of Posthumus, so nigh at least
and give out
'Faith, once or twice she heaved the name of 'father'
Will but remember me what a deal of world
By your own true affections, and that your minds,
When inward joy enforced my heart to smile!
A most outrageous fit of madness took him,
The heir of Alencon, Katharine her name.
Yet have we some revenge. Let husbands know
All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven.
swain,--I keep her as a vessel of the law's fury,
'Tis three o'clock, and, Romans, yet ere night
How now, Shylock! what news among the merchants?
That must needs be sport alone,
Whom every thing becomes, to chide, to laugh,
O excellent!
When in the world I lived, I was the world's
rest, as I said, and, as I say, paying for them very
Lest you shall chance to whip your information
Of my young play-fellow.
And hedges his own way. But in this point
Sir,
A good traveller is something at the latter end of a
And hale him hither.
Down with that sword! Tribunes, withdraw awhile.
What, with Lysander?
May then make all the claim that Arthur did.
Caesar?
Can hide you from our messengers of war,
It is religion that doth make vows kept,
As you shall well be satisfied withal.
honest knaveries.
If you give place to accidental evils.
Exit
soldier keep his oath?
For grief that they are past recovery:
And he shall think that thou, which know'st the way
Your brain, and every function of your power,
More criminal in thee than it,--so thou
than I will a serpent when he hisses: he will spend
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke,
Nor no such men as you have reckon'd up,
[To RICHMOND]
Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought.
Some say a sore, but not a sore, till now made
All that which Henry Fifth had gotten?
Welcome before the gates of Angiers, duke.
When time is broke and no proportion kept!
Wished, my lord! The gods grant,--O my lord!
I do never use it.
gown: he sees thee not.
bite my thumb, sir.
I'll carry it to the pile.
What makes your admiration?
Counterfeit? I lie, I am no counterfeit: to die,
A jewel, lock'd into the wofull'st cask
Preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
O, once tell true, tell true, even for my sake!
poets, cannot
Environ you, till mischief and despair
'orld, I warrant you sall find, in the comparisons
Thus Thisby ends:
her, being ever from their cradles bred together,
No, stir not, for your lives, let her pass by.
Prevail not, go and see: if you can bring
What's that?
I ever said we were i' the wrong when we banished
And by those claim their greatness, not by blood.
Exeunt
Now to the bottom dost thou search my wound:
Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
Main chance, father, you meant, but I meant Maine,
Enter a Messenger
Shylock thy master spoke with me this day,
For we will hear, note and believe in heart
My gracious lord, I'll tell him what you say.
Let me entreat you.
Through casements darted their desiring eyes
Or a dog, that seems a-sleeping:
Whom God hath join'd together, ay, and 'twere pity
So please you, for I never heard it yet,
Was sulphurous to smell: the holy eagle
progress through the guts of a beggar.
Got's will, and his passion of my heart! I had as
Is it for him you do envy me so?
And wet his grave with my repentant tears,
I'll change my black gown for a faithful friend.
We are in God's hand, brother, not in theirs.
What will Count Rousillon do then? will he travel
Over her passion, who, most rebel-like,
And yet the spacious breadth of this division
Thy safety being the motive.
I tender to thy hand: all thy vexations
Make me revenger. Bear the king's son's body
I am betray'd, by keeping company
Although thou hast been conduct of my shame.
What did thy song bode, lady?
Three times hath Henry Bolingbroke made head
will,'tis strongly wedged up in a block-head, but
That roan shall by my throne.
Aside
He tells her something
Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand!
Gallops the zodiac in his glistering coach,
We would not understand what was most fit,
I kill'd a man, whose death I much repent,
Becomes more mock'd than fear'd, so our decrees,
Let him go, Gertrude, do not fear our person:
'Item: She can sew.'
And bid the cheek be ready with a blush
O, reason not the need: our basest beggars
Well, go to, very well.
In our well-found successes, to report
Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
'Convey,' the wise it call. 'Steal!' foh! a fico
Are in great grievance: there have been commissions
Dazzle mine eyes, or do I see three suns?
Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
Make mouths upon me when I turn my back,
Lest I revenge. What, myself upon myself?
Denies that saying. Sirrah, what say you?
against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
Pardon me, madam: little joy have I
The which will I, not all so much for love
Isidore's Servant	It is so.
Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door,
As I am son and servant to your will,
The gods forbid!
Your pleasure was my mere offence, my punishment
Hark, hark! I hear him, mistress. fly, be gone!
Yon sometimes famous princes, like thyself,
His noble kinsman: most degenerate king!
Which, as I take it, is a kind of puppy
fie, fie! pah, pah! Give me an ounce of civet,
Enter KENT and OSWALD, severally
ANTIPHOLUS
Without the stamp of merit? Let none presume
The one of them contains my picture, prince:
Do thee all rights of service.
I curse myself, for they are sent by me,
way then to unfool me again? Set down the basket,
Now God help thee!
That feeds and breeds by a composture stolen
Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards
Come, come, sweet emperor, come, Andronicus,
Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed,
So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
Large gifts have I bestow'd on learned clerks,
worse after dinner, I will not part from thee yet.
He is no less than what we say he is.
spirit, which you have not, a beard neglected,
My maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brentford, has a
As this I would: ay, though thou didst produce
Would be as heavy to me as odious, but
Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you
Item, Sack, two gallons, 5s. 8d.
Call him to present trial: if he may
To accuse this worthy man, but, in foul mouth
Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met: will you
One hour's storm will drown the fragrant meads,
of Paris my lord, who's there in person, with him,
Fly away, fly away breath,
Well-liking wits they have, gross, gross, fat, fat.
But what said Jaques?
And such protest of pepper-gingerbread,
If foul desire had not conducted you?
'Tis certain, every man that dies ill, the ill upon
Ne'er brake into extremity of rage.
Too late he died that might have kept that title,
Then what intends these forces thou dost bring?
Prefer them hither, for to cunning men
fortune-telling. She works by charms, by spells,
Shall drop their blood in approbation
And if it please you, so, if not, why, so.
Tush, tush, man, never fleer and jest at me:
How now, Abhorson? what's the news with you?
And ere we have thy youthful wages spent,
God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me, but a
What will become of me now, wretched lady!
Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
Did scare away, or rather did affright,
My breast can better brook thy dagger's point
Which modern lamentations might have moved?
the lady of the house?
And not as given. This so darks
So strange, outrageous, and so variable,
This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
Exeunt
Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol,
Enter IDEN, with CADE'S head
but lean luck in the match, and yet is she a
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied,
Good morrow, sweet Hal. What says Monsieur Remorse?
Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and PARIS
As all the tuned spheres, and that to friends,
And now I do bethink me, it was she
E'en so.
They're busy within, you were best knock louder.
Will you be patient? will you stay awhile?
Speak freely of our acts, or else our grave,
'Tis but surmised whiles thou art standing by,
'Tis past, my liege,
He seek the life of any citizen,
Without the show of both, fat Falstaff
You are young, Sir Harry Guildford.
But if you  knew to whom you show this honour,
Most audible, even from his proper tongue,
Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then.
Thou dost conspire against thy friend, Iago,
We grace the yeoman by conversing with him.
No, that's certain, I am not a double man: but if I
The bloody office of his timeless end.
That cannot do that feat, you'll leave yourself
Whom Troy hath still denied: but this Antenor,
You were best to tell Antonio what you hear,
Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine,
Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out
not horribly afraid? doth not thy blood thrill at
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot
Your high displeasure: all this uttered
That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage:
Exeunt
Be free as is the wind. Deliver him, Titus.
Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt
What have you now to present unto him?
For who is living, if those two are gone?
Give me thy hand. Who's there?
Nay, come, Kate, come, you must not look so sour.
Were I the ghost that walk'd, I'ld bid you mark
Seldom but sumptuous, showed like a feast
There is my hand.
Leave me with haste.
strong, or so.
Away, captains! let's get us from the walls,
Exit CLARENCE, and SOMERSET follows
O, sir, to such as boasting show their scars
Murder, stem murder, in the direst degree,
in a thatched house!
And I with them the third night kept the watch,
The tread of a man's foot: to the wars!
thine ignorance makes thee away: farewell. When
And tell him where I stay: give the like notice
So like a waking. To me comes a creature,
For pilferings and most common trespasses
Pole!
Yes, yes, he teaches boys the hornbook. What is a,
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
between that and my blood.
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
A whole one, I.
Repair there to me.
Walk in the orchard and our whole discourse
Weep for my pardon. So it must be, for now
Come, Mother Prat, come, give me your hand.
Is the obedience to a master, one
We'll wait upon your lordship.
And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
It hath been sung at festivals,
And more, more strong, then lesser is my fear,
speed well in it, the duke shall both speak of it.
As I have given out him. My sons, I must,
That does appear as he were flay'd? O gods
Enter a Gardener, and two Servants
The king! why, who's that?
Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born?
I saw him not.
Nobody, I myself. Farewell
They shall no more prevail than we give way to.
Ruffian, let go that rude uncivil touch,
Say she be mute and will not speak a word,
Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
I am a mother to you.
so that here men are punished for before-breach of
Good gods!
Ah, sir, there's many a Greek and Trojan dead,
cork into a hogshead. And then for the
You shall have me assisting you in all.
She give it Cassio! no, alas! I found it,
Lay hands upon him.
so many talents, nay, urged extremely for't and
wicked villain, despite of all grace.
'Tis but the shortening of my life one day:
Close at the heels of her virtues.
None of these rogues and cowards
But, out, alas! here have we found him dead.
know to be his character, the majesty of the
God ye good even, William.
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench,
Out of the chamber with her! Were I a tyrant,
Who can be bound by any solemn vow
[To TROILUS]  My well-famed lord of Troy, no
Most true, he does.
name? Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
With nightly tears and daily heart-sore sighs,
Sin, death, and hell have set their marks on him,
To mourn thy crosses, with thy daughter's, call
Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way
Not so, I think she lives.
More than a spinster, unless the bookish theoric,
Who loves to lie with me,
With entertaining great Hyperion.
which is left of him what he is, fetch me to the
I have a voice and precedent of peace,
And there repose: a turn or two I'll walk,
Thou hate and terror to prosperity,
And till she stoop she must not be full-gorged,
the loins, and men by the legs: when a man's
charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
Sennet sounded. Enter MACBETH, as king, LADY  MACBETH, as queen, LENNOX, ROSS, Lords, Ladies, and Attendants
These be good humours! your honour wins bad humours.
opportunity to be required, look you, I will be so
One word more, one word.
though he had no hand in his death, shall receive
adventure would counsel you to a more equal
Since thou, created to be awed by man,
Hath an argosy cast away, coming from Tripolis.
And how desirous of our sight they are.
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
ANTIPHOLUS
You see how he intends to use the people.
Away to heaven, respective lenity,
his lover, as a puisny tilter, that spurs his horse
How chance my daughter is not with you? Do not
How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
Yea, Richard, when I know, for I protest
And they have been grand-jury-men since before Noah
Of virtue was she, yea, and she herself.
Are you there, wife? you might have come before.
If by your art, my dearest father, you have
Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen,
ill together: our virtues would be proud, if our
I will encounter darkness as a bride,
Bethink you, father, for the difference
Murder of Gonzago?
true, think you?
And now I have the boy, I will undo
At Rhodes, at Cyprus and on other grounds
A man is master of his liberty:
Your only choice.
Made hard with hourly falsehood--falsehood, as
Than I do now: with thought of such affections,
Exit First Servant
And here ye lie baiting of bombards, when
Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.
To-morrow is the joyful day, Audrey, to-morrow will
Away, I say, and bring them hither straight.
And won her soul, and she, sweet lady, dotes,
A very scurvy fellow.
Which thou supposest I have done to thee.
straggling soldiers with great quantity: 'tis said
Than Marchioness of Pembroke: to which title
Enfranchisement immediate on his kn ees:
As oft it loses all: I will be gone,
What, art thou devout? wast thou in prayer?
In half an hour she promised to return.
Plenty and peace breeds cowards: hardness ever
By Christ's dear blood shed for our grievous sins,
How with mine honour may I give him that
In Troy, there lies the scene. From isles of Greece
I would not yield to be your house's guest,
Ay me! says one, O Jove! the other cries,
any dishonesty.
We'll visit Caliban my slave, who never
Even so.
He sends you this most memorable line,
The manner of his speech, for't cannot be
Under the earth.
Good my lord, tell it.
Travelling some journey, to repose him here.
Signior Lodovico?
I have writ me here a letter to her: and here
Fie, sir, fie!
As venom toads, or lizards' dreadful stings.
To him that did but yesterday suspire,
Happy be Theseus, our renowned duke!
That every wretch, pining and pale before,
Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
Made to run even upon even ground,
Hath all so long detain'd you from your wife,
Give me any gage of thine, and I will wear it in my
Were it to woo my daughter, for it seems
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
You nickname virtue, vice you should have spoke,
out o' the band: I think I have his letter in my pocket.
To loss and what may follow! Weep I cannot,
I must of another errand to Sir John Falstaff from
Alack, poor soul! thou hast need of more rags to lay
But not with such familiar instances,
And sold their bodies for their country's benefit,
itself ten, which is a goodly increase, and the
never two ladies loved as they do.
No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
In a rich chair of state, opposing freely
now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass: so that by
Je ne doute point d'apprendre, par la grace de Dieu,
Domestic fury and fierce civil strife
Vere is mine host de Jarteer?
At what o'clock to-morrow
He follow'd you, for love I follow'd him,
It was much like an argument that fell out last
she answers thee with frowning looks, I'll sauce her
First if all obstacles were cut away,
Let it go round.
So strongly guarded.
We have not yet been seen in any house,
Some report a sea-maid spawned him, some, that he
However faulty, yet should find respect
Well, if Percy be alive, I'll pierce him. If he do
Her coronation. Katharine no more
foot, sometimes my portly belly.
The effect of what I wrote?
MARCIUS is shut in
Would suffer him to spend his youth at home,
Proud Cleopatra, when she met her Roman,
Not being tried and tutor'd in the world:
Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool
If you know aught which does behove my knowledge
A blessed labour, my most sovereign liege:
Have been mine so that evermore they pointed
I will most willingly attend your ladyship.
The younger then is free and not before.
In private?
Let his arms alone,
Ay, sir, you shall find me reasonable, if it be so,
O my poor brother! and so perchance may he be.
claw no man in his humour.
But what of this? are we not all in love?
Did you ever hear the like?
My lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
bitterness.
These quarrels must be quietly debated.
Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.
No more a soldier: bruised pieces, go,
But thou didst kill my children.
If my heart's dear love--
My uncle Rivers talk'd how I did grow
Ten is the hour that was appointed me
Let all of his complexion choose me so.
Being ne'er so little urged, another way
estimations, the one is but frail and the other
Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?
SCENE V. Pomfret castle.
A hundred pound in gold more than your loss.
Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war
Guilty, my lord, guilty! I confess, I confess.
but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten
Ay, but he will not now be pacified: Fabian can
I mock you! no, by heaven.
of affection would deliver me from the reprobate
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
In happy time.
And I am sent to tell his majesty
To ransom my two nephews from their death,
Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
To have my pardon, trim it handsomely.
Dear for her reputation through the world,
Now will not I deliver his letter: for the behavior
To dash our late decree in parliament
hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.
And in the wood, where often you and I
More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is
Well, let that pass. Dorset is fled to Richmond.
The present wars devour him: he is grown
I pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this:
Fair fall the face it covers!
There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee,
That men shall swear I have discontinued school
And wit's own grace to grace a learned fool.
Exit Stephano
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees
Even to that drop ten thousand wiry friends
Therefore change favours, and, when they repair,
And with his former title greet Macbeth.
Exeunt SALARINO and SALANIO
Down, ladies, let us shame him with our knees.
We have willing dames enough: there cannot be
Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man,
Thus, Brutus, did my master bid me kneel:
That ne'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown.
No longer session hold upon my shame,
Adieu, good queen, I must attend on Caesar.
which we being members, should bring ourselves to be
Thus ready for the way of life or death,
Let me not name it to you, you chaste stars!--
To honour Helen and to be her knight!
You are already Love's firm votary
Right gracious lord, I cannot brook delay:
back and finds her lover?
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
Up in the air, crown'd with the golden sun,
The justice and the truth o' the question carries
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
And therefore I yield thee my free consent.
Away! we'll none on 't: here has been too much
Not according to the prayer of the people, for they
I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so
Your state of fortune and your due of birth,
Ay, our way to be gone.
And meet the time as it seeks us. We fear not
Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid!
Very well.
well that prays for peace.
I heard your guilty rhymes, observed your fashion,
Coming forward
Speak louder.
Women and children of so high a courage,
They say, best men are moulded out of faults,
Of princely fellows, shalt hereafter find
Then dreams, he of another benefice:
[To WARWICK]  My lord ambassador, these letters are for you,
Though some of you with Pilate wash your hands
He wants the natural touch: for the poor wren,
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish,
patience, and, in roaring for a chamber-pot,
No, when my father York and Edward wept,
To join our kingdoms and our hearts, and never
Were to us all, that do't and suffer it,
My stern effects: then what I have to do
Sir, I have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind,
I warrant it will.
Four of their lords I'll change for one of ours.
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
My legs can keep no measure in delight,
fixture of thy foot would give an excellent motion
tavern and tavern: but the sack that thou hast
Doing himself offence, whilst we, lying still,
Will not debate the question of this straw:
But be extirped from our provinces.
Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
Letters should not be known, riches, poverty,
They prepare to play
Cassio, my lord! No, sure, I cannot think it,
In brief, a braver choice of dauntless spirits
as a doornail, I pray God I may never eat grass more.
further afoot, I shall break my wind. Well, I doubt
Into the tumbling billows of the main.
Enter DESDEMONA, EMILIA, IAGO, RODERIGO, and Attendants
On her dead mistress, tremblingly she stood
We will bear home that lusty blood again
appear stubborn to him, for she incites me to that
He wooes both high and low, both rich and poor,
I'll make a corse of him that disobeys.
Go then, and with a countenance as clear
Bohemia greets you from himself by me,
Were by his side, sometime he calls the king,
Good duke, receive thy daughter
Re-enter GUIDERIUS, with CLOTEN'S head
And yet I know thou wilt.
Of England's true-anointed lawful king.
I must dance bare-foot on her wedding day
Or a harlot, for her weeping,
As it rain'd kisses.
She then was honest.
What mean'st thou, Suffolk, tell me, what are these?
napkins, that, Master Brook, there was the rankest
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
How fine my master is! I am afraid
times upon far poorer moment: I do think there is
Lascivious, wanton, more than well beseems
Array'd in flames like to the prince of fiends,
Launcelot, father, for the young gentleman,
As I do live by food, I met a fool
Well, I have done: but yet,--
Under the countenance and confederacy
Two Cliffords, as the father and the son,
On my life, my lord, a bubble.
Wherein my grandsire and my father sat?
And you all know, security
Thou art the king of honour:
That, notwithstanding thy capacity
grammar school, and whereas, before, our forefathers
And durst not once peep out.
I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
How now, Oswald!
Madest quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne.
'Twixt natural son and sire! thou bright defiler
And make me put into contempt the suits
Well met, Master Ford.
That e'er the sun shone bright on.
Thou slewest my husband Henry in the Tower,
Ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers' sons
SCENE I. The forest.
places: your hearts are mighty, your skins are
Ask her forgiveness?
Re-enter to CARDINAL WOLSEY, NORFOLK and SUFFOLK, SURREY, and the Chamberlain
Music of the hautboys as under the stage
I am not sent to you by my lady, to bid you come
Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me?
and body's fostering patron.'
Unless it were a bloody murderer,
From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
look ill, Timon. Here's that which is too weak to
Why, then, young Bertram, take her, she's thy wife.
Doth valour's show and valour's worth divide
Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
And more thirsts after.
Truly, sir, to wear out their shoes, to get myself
Well, on: Mistress Ford, you say,--
Revolt our subjects? that we cannot mend,
For Valentine myself, for Julia Silvia.
The dropsy drown this fool I what do you mean
When first I raised the tempest. Say, my spirit,
And after seem to chide 'em. This shall make
Well, madam.
And how he cannot be a perfect man,
Is friendly with him.
That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear,
sweet knaves,
For King of England shalt thou be proclaim'd
The good gods me presently,
If wrongs be evils and enforce us kill,
What a plague mean ye to colt me thus?
Exit Servant
And indeed, sir, there are cozeners abroad,
Who's there? come in: the wish deserves a welcome.
Encourage him, and show him all our reasons:
Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me,
Where you may temper her by your persuasion
it comes to pass oft that a terrible oath, with a
Say I do speak with her, my lord, what then?
And we will all subscribe to thy advice:
I rode on: it is yours, because you liked it.
Fortune pursue thee!
are very rascals since bonds disgraced them.
Which is the bell: so sighs and tears and groans
And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
where's that?
Be call'd to him.
None at all.
The throne he sits on, nor the tide of pomp
Nay, get thee gone.
Tears the supplication
Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must
I do.
To justify this worthy nobleman,
SCENE III. A street.
And you. Good night, good night.
Yet did I purpose as they do entreat,
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
To him, I say!
Writing their own reproach, to whose soft seizure
What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
Nurse, give it me, my sword shall soon dispatch it.
God keep the prince from all the pack of you!
But I disdain'd it, and did scorn to fly:
Charles and the rest will take thee in their arms.
Will to my sense bend no licentious ear,
He is gone, indeed.
priests in the old church-window, sometime like the
'Then music with her silver sound
Alas, poor shepherd!
Beaumont, Grandpre, Roussi, and Fauconberg,
Further to question me of your king's departure:
I bid them that did love their country's good
But that I told him, the revenging gods
Mend 'em, for shame, my lords. Is this your comfort?
to dinner, sir, why, let it be as humours and
I pray you, go with me.
Pray you then,
Enter HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA
And bring away the armour that is there.
disposition, and out of his noble carelessness lets
But this my masculine usurp'd attire,
Looks on alike. Will't please you, sir, be gone?
I will not have excuse, with saying this
be-rhyme her, Dido a dowdy, Cleopatra a gipsy,
Those that I never saw and struck them dead.
He fighteth as one weary of his life.
And the desire of the nobles.
And justice always whirls in equal measure:
Such as is bent on sun-like majesty
Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.
By spying and avoiding fortune's malice,
And yet died too! I, in mine own woe charm'd,
Wednesday half an hour together: has such a
Lest thou be hated both of God and man!
A heart it was, bound in with diamonds,
Hath not a tomb so evident as a chair
To say 'King Richard:' alack the heavy day
Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance:
and give way: when I know not what else to do, I'll
Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning
That smiles his cheek in years and knows the trick
Did he so often lodge in open field,
Why should I not? doth he not deserve well?
For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
Alarum. Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
every thing and their intent every where, for that's
And there's an oath of credit.
Believe me, sir, she is the goodliest woman
Alas, my lord,
You're deceived, my lord: this is Monsieur
Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
SCENE VII. Verona. JULIA'S house.
Go, hang thyself in thine own heir-apparent
Go, Pindarus, get higher on that hill,
And left behind him Richard, his only son,
TITUS LARTIUS, having set a guard upon  Corioli, going with drum and trumpet toward  COMINIUS and CAIUS MARCIUS, enters with Lieutenant, other Soldiers, and a Scout
Great men have reaching hands: oft have I struck
However God or fortune cast my lot,
Throws down one mountain to cast up a higher.
incarnate.
Their herald is a pretty knavish page,
man in the city, and though I be but a poor man, I
SCENE I. A public place.
'Tis burnt, and so is all the meat.
Ay, I know who 'tis, he hath no interest in me in
To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns,
[Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
And thought they Margaret was Hero?
love thee.
And presently, I prithee.
My blood is mingled with the crime of lust:
Come on, mistress: here's a gentlewoman denies all
In the cradle where it lies.
She was the fairest creature in the world,
But who comes here?
O monstrous traitor! I arrest thee, York,
'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue.
gentleman: they will along with company, for they
On what compulsion must I? tell me that.
I will not be the executioner.
And for achievement offer us his ransom.
and to be on foot at an hour's warning.
then you will play bare-faced. But, masters, here
And not with such a cruel threatening look.
And, by that knot, looks proudly o'er the crown,
So I hear.
You were to blame, I must be plain with you,
Now these her princes are come home again,
Exit CATESBY
That I enjoy, being the queen thereof.
Nerissa, cheer yon stranger, bid her welcome.
Of your dear mother England, blush for shame,
'The humour of it,' quoth a'! here's a fellow
Full merrily
What offends you, lady?
O Kate, content thee, prithee, be not angry.
Enter CASSANDRA
I see thou art not for my company.
ANTIPHOLUS
Who play they to?
To imitate them, faults that are rich are fair.
Whom he begot with child, let her appear,
How every fool can play upon the word! I think the
An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the only colour.
No, the world must be peopled. When I said I would
What stronger breastplate than a heart untainted!
I have confess'd her and I know her virtue.
Ask him upon his oath, if he does think
And, sith there's no justice in earth nor hell,
Say, that the last I spoke was 'Antony,'
A creature unprepared, unmeet for death,
I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request,
Upon the foot of fear, fled with the rest,
Go, my dread lord, to your great-grandsire's tomb,
That Cupid will impose for my neglect
thee further.
Apt, in good faith, very apt. Well, go thy way, if
With so fun soul, but some defect in her
Destruction straight shall dog them at the heels.
'Tis not his wont to be the hindmost man,
It shall be so, disdain they ne'er so much.
Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE with a torch
AEneas is a-field,
And  [Censorinus,]  nobly named so,
That mightst have had the sole son of my queen!
To be adopted heir to Frederick.
I will play three myself.
Too bad for bad report: and he that hath her--
To make commotion, as full well he can,
Therefore lay hold of him,
interlude before the duke and the duchess, on his
For we would give much, to use violent thefts,
That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them.
I wish your ladyship all heart's content.
And, pray, receive 'em nobly, and conduct 'em
That would depopulate the city and
I'll see it truly done, my Lord of York.
'tis thou
Romeo is coming.
Knows not my feeble key of untuned cares?
Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
A plaguing mischief light on Charles and thee!
carriage, for he carried the town-gates on his back
Dares stir a wing, if Warwick shake his bells.
This babble shall not henceforth trouble me.
Enter HAMLET
Therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh.
And you by land.
Come, to this gear. You are a good archer, Marcus,
And then I'll study how to die.
Where France?
To ANTONIO
After your highness had reproved the duke
Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
his incensement at this moment is so implacable,
Nay, put out all your hands. Not one word more:
Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife.
Tell me, sweet uncle, what's the matter?
Julia, farewell!
Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble,
So slackly guarded, and the search so slow,
Died he not in his bed? where should he die?
And tarry for the comfort of the day.
Show duty, as mistaken all this while
The king hath granted every article:
Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life,
open all our proceedings. O, I could divide myself
certain of it, and when I cannot live any longer, I
With less respect than we do minister
God's will and his pleasure, captain, I beseech you
Alack, why am I sent for to a king,
And followed with a rabble that rejoice
'Tis right.
loose-wived, so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a
all three all ready.
O, ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly
In your dear highness' love.
To rest mistrustful where a noble heart
Still to return your own.
Well, sir, I thank you.
Lord Say, Jack Cade hath sworn to have thy head.
my head fill my belly, one fruitful meal would set
The offer likes not: and the nimble gunner
Not fear still to be taken: I know his heart.
You have great reason to do Richard right,
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
Ready to catch each other by the throat,
I will respect thee as a father if
Walk half an hour, Leonine, at the least:
To Bona, sister to the King of France.
Beside that of the jewel house, is made master
I do not know
That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him?
'Faith, some do, and some do not. But, mistress, if
Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.
The 'solus' in thy teeth, and in thy throat,
Tell him of Nestor, one that was a man
Wrench his sword from him.
gown that they praise so.
I know from whence this same device proceeds:
Uncertain way of gain! But I am in
If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine,
And beat the messenger who bids beware
Thou hast described
Most villanously, like a pedant that keeps a school
Thou art no Atlas for so great a weight:
'Fair' in 'all hail' is foul, as I conceive.
To her in haste, give her this jewel, say,
Neither is our profession any trade, it's no
All this I see, and I see that the fashion wears
is it a spare life, look you, it fits my humour well,
That will be never: tune your instrument.
As Cerberus at the Thracian poet's feet.
Is he so young a man and so old a lifter?
swore he would pay him again when he was able: I
'as true as I live,' and 'as God shall mend me,' and
Forces pass
Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite,
one and twenty fifteens, and one shilling to the
And in thy need such comfort come to thee
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and MENAS
May easily win a woman's. Ay, my mother,
Than Cressid borne from Troy.
Here is a lady that wants breathing too:
Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements! good!
There serve your lusts, shadow'd from heaven's eye,
O prince, I conjure thee, as thou believest
Our grace can make him so.
A load would sink a navy, too much honour:
For France, 'tis ours, and we will keep it still.
To Poet
Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of
I will in, to be revenged for this villany.
thy fool to lie: I would fain learn to lie.
rod of marshalship, a coronet on his head.
It can do me no damage,' adding further,
He that hath lost her too, so is the queen,
Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel,
woo me: at which time would I, being but a moonish
I laugh'd him out of patience, and that night
Ha, my brave emperor!
shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard.
Love thee as our commander and our king.
At Crosby Place, there shall you find us both.
Will clear or end the business: when the oracle,
But--dost thou hear?--most bloody.
hear your son was run away.
In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
Nay, in all confidence, he's not for Rhodes.
To-day my Lord of Amiens and myself
Songs and Sonnets here.
Sure, I shall never marry like my sisters,
Why, there you touch'd the life of our design:
the letter: she sends him on purpose, that I may
But if it be a sin to covet honour,
Who, the Lord Timon? he is my very good friend, and
Or last, your fine Egyptian cookery
We answer others' merits in our name,
The deed you undertake is damnable.
To snare the nimble marmoset, I'll bring thee
Should make thee worth them. Blasts and fogs upon thee!
Why, that's the lady, all the world desires her,
The offer of this time, I cannot promise
Was of more danger, did compound for her
shoulder, the mole in my neck, the great wart on my
Your exposition misinterpreting,
And made defeat of her virginity,--
We'll quickly rouse the traitors in the same.
Thyself hast loved, and I have heard thee say
Call for some men of sound direction
By how much better than my word I am,
Yes, so please your majesty. I did go between them,
Why, sir, for my part I say the gentleman had drunk
Enter a Servant
How shall I best convey the ladder thither?
SCENE V. Paris. The KING's palace.
A calf, fair lady!
wondrous fat marriage.
there's an end.
I do affect the very ground, which is base, where
I'll stay no longer question.
disclosed.
Water with berries in't, and teach me how
Madam, farewell.
Rescue thy mistress, if thou be a man.
heritage: and I think I shall never have the
[First nodding]  Ay.
'Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves.'
That, in the official marks invested, you
Fairy king, attend, and mark:
To VIOLA
Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
Their clothes are after such a pagan cut too,
Incenses them to send destruction.
the world: here comes the man you mean.
Sir, his wife some two months since fled from his
gown, having come from a day-bed, where I have left
Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
Sir, there is a proclamation that you are vanished.
envious a scholar, a statesman and a soldier.
I am not Samson, nor Sir Guy, nor Colbrand,
And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn
humour to knock you indifferently well. If you grow
Unless my hand and strength could equal them.
Must I do so? and must I ravel out
He is a Roman, no more kin to me
And every word in it a gaping wound,
May never glorious sun reflex his beams
Exeunt
soft, soft!
What other pleasure can the world afford?
Re-enter PANTHINO
Lose our drum! well.
Of Phoebus' wheel, and might so safely, had it
This day is called the feast of Crispian:
Exeunt COMINIUS and MENENIUS
Nothing: I have sworn, I am firm.
The routed fly: so thy grand captain Antony
Repair'd with double riches of content.
I go, my lord.
And did not I in rage depart from thence?
I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
You tempt him over-much.
Or all my fence shall fail.
Pardon is still the nurse of second woe:
That there are unicorns, that in Arabia
Enter a Servant
As for that heinous tiger, Tamora,
The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds
I praise God for you, sir: your reasons at dinner
tongue, and I thine, most truly-falsely, must needs
In lieu whereof, I pray you, bear me hence
Drums and trumpets sound, with great shouts of the People
Must I behold thy timeless cruel death?
SONG
Enter CONSTANCE, ARTHUR, and SALISBURY
Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
never had triumph'd upon a Scot.
They retire
To be direct and honest is not safe.
Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings.
KING CLAUDIUS dies
Can it be possible that no man saw them?
And meaner than myself have had like fortune.
Then, Isabel, live chaste, and, brother, die:
It were a better death than die with mocks,
Titus Andronicus, for thy favors done
And not to kiss you. A health, gentlemen!
For this from stiller seats we came,
Nor I.
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
We serve you, madam,
Why, no, boy, nothing can be made out of nothing.
Stabs BASSIANUS
To mend it, or be rid on't.
O, is't come to this?
When I am sure you hate me with your hearts.
Well, I do commend her choice,
O my brave emperor, this is fought indeed!
as far from jealousy as I am from giving him cause,
I will not sup to-night.
Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
Clarence, thy turn is next, and then the rest,
Exeunt
My lord, your son was gone before I came.
I am half afraid he will have need of washing, so
But falls into abatement and low price,
when he shall come to his account, he knows not
Fie, fie, how wayward is this foolish love
Almost forgot my prayers to content him?
magistrates.
No, but the loss of his own royal person.
Since, lords of England, it is thus agreed
And, whilst I at a banquet hold him sure,
To have him match'd, and if you please to like
Ay, marry, is't:
I thank you for your own. Now, gentlemen,
To any other trust but that I am mad
Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy:
Yet I alone, alone do me oppose
Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn'd,
Comes it not something near?
Giving a paper
They all shout and wave their swords, take him up in their arms, and cast up their caps
Where got'st thou that goose look?
Is more to bread than stone: hence shall we see,
That makes me ugly, and, besides, the Moor
And hath abatements and delays as many
Lord mayor,--
And tells us, what occasion of import
That longs for every thing that he can come by.
Too little care of this! Take physic, pomp,
town-armory, with a broken hilt, and chapeless,
To fright them, ere destroy. But come in:
himself possessed him, yet I'll speak to him.
The evil that men do lives after them,
SCENE II. Verona. JULIA'S house.
All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head.
More suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
Re-enter POLONIUS, with VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!
Thou call'dst me dog before thou hadst a cause,
One spirit to command: they all do hate him
You would all this time have proved there is no
Mangle the work of nature and deface
Let me redeem my brothers both from death.
Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
Many good morrows to my noble lord!
And nothing more, may fitly like your grace,
I slew thy father, call'st thou him a child?
Methinks the realms of England, France and Ireland
flowers o' the season
He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme
That doth not smack of observation,
And I.
be one! Hush! here come the lords of Tyre.
The law allows it, and the court awards it.
Either she hath bewitch'd me with her words,
They do not mark me, and that brings me out.
not bid him cut it to pieces: ergo, thou liest.
The abuse of greatness is, when it disjoins
The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy:
Devise but how you'll use him when he comes,
But there's but one in all doth hold his place:
Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the plain bald
Hear his speech, but say thou nought.
In other arms than hers,--to him this challenge.
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
And now their pride and mettle is asleep,
If you have told Diana's altar true,
Shalt stir up in Suffolk, Norfolk, and in Kent,
Once more I come to know of thee, King Harry,
the prince be willing, for, indeed, the watch ought
Her father hath commanded her to slip
Which manifold record not matches? See,
CLIFFORD groans, and dies
Yet of your royal presence I'll adventure
Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep,
Madam, I had rather--
No, my lord, rather with choler.
This way, or not at all, stand you in hope.
I'll be your purse-bearer and leave you
There to give up their power. If you can, pace your wisdom
tales of me. I am bound to the Count Orsino's court: farewell.
But thought's the slave of life, and life time's fool,
But had his titles by Tenantius whom
No, trust me, sir, nor I.
These were his very words.
Here sound retreat, and cease our hot pursuit.
See, how the ugly wench doth bend her brows,
With Roger Bolingbroke, the conjurer?
In which predicament, I say, thou stand'st,
Digressing from the valour of a man,
Gloucester, I do defy thee. Lords, vouchsafe
Lest this great sea of joys rushing upon me
Ye all which it inherit, shall dissolve
Dear lord, go you and greet him in his tent:
Go you to him from me.
Hang'd in the frowning wrinkle of her brow!
o' the coxcombs with a stick, and cried 'Down,
Four or five women once that tended me?
And buss thee as thy wife. Misery's love,
Thou weepest to make them drink, Timon.
It is a matter of small consequence,
Who by his prowess conquered all France:
From the report that goes upon your goodness,
I cleft his beaver with a downright blow:
To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes,
To yield me often tidings: neither know I
But since your falsehood shall become you well
As high in the air as this unthankful king,
and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because
Could not abide to be with, therefore wast thou
Vow, alack, for youth unmeet,
the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supply
Why, madam, so, no doubt, he is.
The Moor! I know his trumpet.
Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you.
Here stooping to your clemency,
What is it, my good friends?
I promised your grace a hunter's peal.
Go fetch fire.
It is so, the Count Claudio shall marry the
quick by him and hanged for Pompey that is dead by
A bawd, sir? fie upon him! he will discredit our mystery.
To say you're welcome were superfluous.
She shall be dignified with this high honour--
not drowned. Is the storm overblown? I hid me
By love, who first did prompt me to inquire,
Re-enter TROILUS
fortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will plead
As I seem now. Their transformations
In ignorant concealment.
May not extend so far as to the lady:
My downright violence and storm of fortunes
I know not what you mean by that, but, I am sure,
A most courteous exposition.
Marry, the gods forfend!
Save I alone, till Antony have spoke.
Why that's my spirit!
Plague on't, an I thought he had been valiant and so
Beating him
And so rebel to judgment.
By the imprisoning of unruly wind
And poor in worth! Now shall we see to-morrow--
When this was now a king, and now is clay?
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
No, I will be the pattern of all patience,
If I may counsel you, some day or two
enough. It hath struck ten o'clock.
Go with me to my chamber, and advise me.
all neighbouring languages, therefore we must every
well that die in a battle, for how can they
Enter a Messenger
A plague upon the tyrant that I serve!
He apprehends a world of figures here,
Re-enter Attendants with THYREUS
Did you and he consent in Cassio's death?
The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds
As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
Ay.
I will tell her.
Exit
when you have pushed out your gates the very
him from't.
As gentle and as jocund as to jest
A Roman and a British ensign wave
Late footed in the kingdom?
Which brought us hither.
But as a discontented friend, grief-shot
This Lodovico is a proper man.
Whilst he that hears makes fearful action,
Whose hot incursions and great name in arms
And came I not at last to comfort you?
Out three years old.
How say you, madam, are ye so content?
Scorn'd a fair colour, or express'd it stolen,
Music
Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,
till they've swallowed the whole parish, church,
A mere anatomy, a mountebank,
No visor does become black villany
Enter LUCIANA and ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
Edward Plantagenet, why art thou dead?
By some illusion see thou bring her here:
Accessible is none but Milford way.
You fen-suck'd fogs, drawn by the powerful sun,
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
And secretly to greet the empress' friends.
And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
Where hast been, Hal?
And now I fear that fatal prophecy
Never came reformation in a flood,
In Philoten all graceful marks,
buy him a wooden one?
Smells from the general weal: make curl'd-pate
I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some
And bonny Kate and sometimes Kate the curst,
Dismiss them home.
Set this device against Malvolio here,
A chain, a chain! Do you not hear it ring?
Of a strange fever. Upon his mere request,
that decerns you nearly.
so with him.
Or bitterly to speak in your reproof.
Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
But he, poor soul, by your first order died,
Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and
Enter DUCHESS OF YORK
In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle.
Keep house and port and servants as I should:
And vaulted with such ease into his seat,
be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied
Now you have heard the truth, what say you, Romans?
That you must. Will you, upon good dowry, marry her?
From certain and possess'd conveniences,
Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden,
To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain
Alas! this parting strikes poor lovers dumb.
A guiltless death I die.
When, for his hand, he had his two sons' heads,
O eastern star!
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
The fingers of the powers above do tune
lies the jest.
O that he were alive, and here beholding
Till we with trophies do adorn thy tomb.
Assemble presently the people hither,
Which spongy April at thy hest betrims,
Most sure and vulgar: every one hears that,
[Reads]            Hermione, queen to the worthy
Chaste Dian bathing: never saw I figures
Thou bitch-wolf's son, canst thou not hear?
Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm,
Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.
Exeunt
Our mistress' sorrows we were pitying.
My boy a bastard! By my soul, I think
And some donation freely to estate
Exeunt
To die upon the hand I love so well.
What, what, what? ill luck, ill luck?
But, my lord cardinal, and you, my Lord of Suffolk,
You'ld feel more comfort: why should we, good lady,
But that thou interrupt'st our merriment.
And what's the news, good cousin Lodovico?
Fidele, sir. I have a kinsman who
What peace you'll make, advise me: for my part,
Will bring me off again. What's this? 'To the Pope!'
Darest with thy frozen admonition
That which so often you did bid me steal.
With words that made them known. But thy vile race,
Of a diverted blood and bloody brother.
At which, like unback'd colts, they prick'd
Iago set him on.
Saying our grace is only in our heels,
The world esteem'd thy father honourable,
ANTIPHOLUS
deserve at my hand, but we must do good against evil.
To be the realm of France, and Pharamond
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
desired in the hearts of his subjects: I would fain
Which makes it five and twenty. Still in motion
And see how he will take it at your hands.
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
prunes, and having but two in the dish, as I said,
Thy truth and thy integrity is rooted
hath no lean wardrobe. 'Sblood, I am as melancholy
From whence 'tis nourish'd: the fire i' the flint
Of being taken by the insolent foe
Through my burn'd bosom, nor entreat the north
Shall make it good, or do his best to do it,
My lord and lady, it is now our time,
hath not the gout, for the one sleeps easily because
I am yours,
Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France,
That weaken motion: I'll have't disputed on,
Yes, my lord. More jewels yet!
And help the joy.
Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip,
Master, if you do, expect spoon-meat, or bespeak a
hangs a tale.
Not sound, I say.
after. Nothing but lechery! all incontinent varlets!
Silence! one word more
Look, how thou diest! look, how thy eye turns pale!
Let Alcibiades know this of Timon,
Soft you, a word or two before you go.
Like a Colossus, and we petty men
Enter Keeper, with a dish
Let but your honour know,
Did lose his lustre: I did hear him groan:
Is it true too, think you?
Why, there they are both, baked in that pie,
Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot
And madly play with my forefather's joints?
Cousin of Exeter, what thinks your lordship?
I pluck this pale and maiden blossom here,
Her eldest sister is so curst and shrewd
The benefit of his blest beams, remaining
And, which became him like a prince indeed,
She shall be prized, but that you say 'be't so,'
Why will my lord do so?
I'll make my match to live,
Would I could meet him, madam! I should show
Rend off thy silver hair, thy other hand
none, why, none: a slipper and subtle knave, a
And, being so, shall have like want of pity.
'Tis but a blow, which never shall be known.
And be not jealous on me, gentle Brutus:
Whose arms were moulded in their mothers' womb
And where that you have vow'd to study, lords,
My lord would speak, my duty hushes me.
Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word
What good could they pretend?
displeasure, neither to speak of him, entreat for
Set all upon me, mighty sovereign.
Whither?
His coming hither hath no further scope
Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all,
If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
Is all as monstrous to our human reason
From simple sources, and great seas have dried
prepared. I am made to understand that you have
For I will kiss her.
What shipping and what lading's in our haven,
But for your health and your digestion sake,
By heaven, methinks it were an easy leap,
What if this mixture do not work at all?
Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove,'
And weak we are and cannot shun pursuit.
Ay, and the approbation of those that weep this
Your laboursome and dainty trims, wherein
Most sure she was.
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
I am a wise fellow, and, which is more, an officer,
Had Henry got an empire by his marriage,
wise, no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether
Ere I arise, I will prefer my sons,
What see you in those papers that you lose
Philomel, with melody,  and c.
By a sharp torture.
The debt he owes will be required of me.
We shall, my liege.
To fetch his daughter home, who first is gone.
La main? elle est appelee de hand.
How have we spent this morning!
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
I never tempted her with word too large,
To hasten on his expedition.
So, now uncape.
It would have much amazed you.
Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed:
Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
To bear our fortunes in our own strong arms,
You have been factious one against the other,
Good morrow, masters, put your torches out:
For virtue and true beauty of the soul,
What am I, sir! nay, what are you, sir? O immortal
Nobly he yokes
Ay, but thou shalt not go.
When on the gentle Severn's sedgy bank,
While these do labour for their own preferment,
Bocchus, the king of Libya, Archelaus,
Seem'd all one mutual cry: I never heard
My rightful hand in a well-hallow'd cause.
Give me my fan: what, minion! can ye not?
fairly guide them! especially to you, fair queen!
by have some speech with you: the satisfaction I
The effects of his fond jealousies so grieving
demand that truly which thou wouldst truly know.
What do you call him?
very nothing, and beyond the imagination of his
I gain'd my freedom, and immediately
That our renowned Rome, whose gratitude
But only, with your patience, that we may
Fitting my bounty and thy state, I'll give it,
et cetera. Do this.
And mine, my lord.
The sad companion, dull-eyed melancholy,
Of palsied eld, and when thou art old and rich,
widow weeps.
The throned monarch better than his crown,
BISHOP
Exeunt SEBASTIAN, and ANTONIO
Marry, hang you!
An ordinary groom is for such payment.
Dissemble all your griefs and discontents:
So swift a pace hath thought that even now
I pray you, be not angry with me, madam,
The sharded beetle in a safer hold
O, give me pardon,
In simple and low things to prince it much
As hazel nuts and sweeter than the kernels.
All hail, great master! grave sir, hail! I come
And yours from long living!
With a more riotous appetite.
Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to
Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight,
Made former wonders its. To-day the French,
Receive each other. God speak this Amen!
And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen,
How, with his banners and his well-paid ranks,
They fight
Are we come hither: since that thy sight,
Whose dimpled smiles from fools exhaust their mercy,
Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him,
knees he would be even with me: I have good
Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!
You that thus far have come to pity me,
To meet anon, upon your approbation.
The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long,
And threats the throat of that his officer
Since thou deniest the gentle king to speak.
Your majesty hear now, saving your majesty's
SCENE I. The house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
get this foolish Imogen, I should have gold enough.
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst!
And then they call'd me foul adulteress,
I pray, my lord, pardon me, I took ye for my lord
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding-day:
You shall not seal to such a bond for me:
To SCARUS
Behind the ditches of the abbey here.
Would in so just a business shut his bosom
Attend me, then: I went to Antioch,
Exeunt
What pleasure was he given to?
Mine eyes, even sociable to the show of thine,
To-morrow to my bloody creditor.
Leaps down
SCENE I. Saint Alban's.
Thames? Well, if I be served such another trick,
Or look on thine, we could not stall together
of your quality, come, a passionate speech.
Such as by God's book are adjudged to death.
I trust ere long to choke thee with thine own
And strain what other means is left unto us
That sits above,
As they are sharing, the Prince and Poins set upon  them, they all run away, and Falstaff, after a blow or two, runs away too, leaving the booty behind them
Hark, hark! I hear the minstrels play.
Strange that power should be. Canidius,
Or hew my way out with a bloody axe.
Whom in this conflict I unwares have kill'd.
Come, sermon me no further:
Three things that women highly hold in hate.
And we be lords and rulers over Rouen,
Exeunt
thought my spleen, the heaving of my lungs provokes
All flaxen was his poll:
Cousin Abraham Slender, can you love her?
That thou so oft have boasted to retain?
Want similes, truth tired with iteration,
Are making hither with all due expedience
Mistake me not, I speak but as I find.
Here after excursions, enter the Herald of France, with trumpets, to the gates
O Banquo, Banquo,
I have bargained for the joint,--
Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George,
cast accompt.
We'll fight with him to-night.
That Margaret shall be queen, and none but she.
under the hangman: which though it be great pity,
Is warm'd by the rest, and takes it thankfully.
A third is like the former. Filthy hags!
That which shall break his neck or hazard mine,
Between the elements of air and earth,
swear by this bottle how thou camest hither. I
One of them we behold.
rebused your worship?
While I remain above the ground, you shall
courtesy! 'tis so, indeed. Yet again your fingers
This pausingly ensued: neither the king nor's heirs,
Virtue is no horn-maker, and my Rosalind is virtuous.
To your worship's house, sir?
obstruction in the blood, this cross-gartering, but
Thoughts high for one so tender, cleft the heart
Might bear him company in the quest of him:
I saw good strawberries in your garden there
Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality
For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!
Poor thing, condemn'd to loss!
How covert matters may be best disclosed,
I have known my husband, yet my husband
No more, perchance, does mine, nor his, nor hers.
Fled this way, sir. When by no means he could--
But, tell me, where is princely Richmond now?
And then to dinner. You are passing welcome,
We have stretch'd thus far, let us beseech you
Why will you mew her up,
And, noble signior,
Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!
No, but brown.
were masters of their wealth. Mark now, how a plain
Masters, lay down your weapons.
I came from Edward as ambassador,
Bar his access to the king, never attempt
Where's Simple, my man? Can you tell, cousin?
A loyal and obedient subject is
have you wearied your parishioners withal, and never
Than youthful April shall with all his showers:
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
Help Marcius, help,
Twelve cities and seven walled towns of strength,
In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry
Thou rather shalt enforce it with thy smile
I shall have glory by this losing day
Unpleasing to a married ear!
Thou hast saved me a thousand marks in links and
And prove the period of their tyranny,
Without revolt: this is, and is not, Cressid.
Adore our errors, laugh at's, while we strut
The sixth of July: Your loving friend, Benedick.
Their chiefest prospect murdering basilisks!
Saw you my lord?
If you will now unite in your complaints,
I fear I am attended by some spies.
Away, and glister like the god of war,
And thereof comes the proverb: 'Blessing of your
As you must needs, for you all clapp'd your hands
Just, you say well, so would I have said.
Exit
Were, as he says, not with such strength denied
I pray you, speak with me: you shall at least
Where is the Dauphin? Come, come from behind,
This enemy town. I'll enter: if he slay me,
Many receipts he gave me: chiefly one.
They are fairly welcome.
To Cymbeline perform'd:
How, how, Cordelia! mend your speech a little,
That reacheth from the restful English court
Did march three Frenchmen. Yet, forgive me, God,
Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
Thou shalt not damn my hand.
To the Fool
O sweet bully Bottom! Thus hath he lost sixpence a
That best becomes the table. Pray you once more,
must, for my own honour, if he come in: therefore,
Sirrah Costard, I will enfranchise thee.
Made you no more offence but what you speak of?
And give him half: and, for thy vigour,
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
O spite! too old to be engaged to young.
book, she loves you. Have not your worship a wart
Boy sings
Exit Sergeant
Her that so wishes and her humble love!
Hath shook and trembled at the ill neighbourhood.
I may be heard, I would crave a word or two,
her I will execute in the clothes that she so
Thy exercise hath been too violent for
May be the lady: thou shalt know the man
The duke my father loved his father dearly.
Is that his answer?
I, that was wash'd to death with fulsome wine,
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO
favour with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
Get you gone.
Not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend!
Than my Lord Hastings no man might be bolder,
we two will rail against our mistress the world and
Bears all down with her brain, and this her son
And future ages groan for this foul act,
basin and ewer to-night. Flaminius, honest
It is true.
I'll eat nothing, I thank you, sir.
I thank him.
discharging less than the tenth part of one. They
Does she love him?
Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
Ten o'clock: within these three hours 'twill be
I know not, sweet: I found it in my chamber.
Success to the Roman host.
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows
and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden
Sure, you have some hideous matter to deliver, when
With an eye of green in't.
Flourish. Exeunt
knees! But, sirrah, there's no room for faith,
Such news, my lord, as grieves me to unfold.
And blind oblivion swallow'd cities up,
I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk,
I would be blind with weeping, sick with groans,
A piece of painting, which I do beseech
Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver: this will put them
My recompense is thanks, that's all,
If seriously I may convey my thoughts
care for me.
And here my naked breast, within, a heart
Ay, like a black dog, as the saying is.
Or flourish to the height of my degree.
You have not been inquired after:
SCENE III. A street near the Capitol.
And in the vapour of my glory smother'd.
No shame but mine: I must, forsooth, be forced
Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial.
Villain, thou mightst have been an emperor:
Another lean unwash'd artificer
Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.
She is too big, I hope, for me to compass.
And yet runn'st toward him still. Thou art not noble,
You may depend hereafter. Come, my lord.
In faith, she's too curst.
And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and EROS, meeting
deputy's wife of the ward to thee. Go, you thing,
And would my father had left me no more!
I dare my life lay down and will do't, sir,
Exit
abroad: this letter will tell you more.
With dull unwilligness to repay a debt
At duty, more than I could frame employment,
I urged you further, then you scratch'd your head,
A valiant and most expert gentleman. Would it were
In mouths of wisest censure: what's the matter,
You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life,
[To IAGO]  O Spartan dog,
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
no money of me, but being enthralled as I am, it
great man and now applies it to a fool. Vent my
Look to your wife, observe her well with Cassio,
Now all the blessings
Thus high at least, although your knee be low.
The deed, which both our tongues held vile to name.
He might have chid me so, for, in good faith,
The world was very guilty of such a ballad some
My lord, these faults are easy, quickly answered:
With whispering and most guilty diligence,
Under our tents I'll play the eaves-dropper,
I take it, she that carries up the train
Together with the seal o' the senate, what
[Aside]  I am glad thou hast set thy mercy and
And takes her farewell of the glorious sun!
now in as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder
But, woe the while! our fathers' minds are dead,
Wherefore to Dover, sir?
Kisses the base ground with obedient breast?
His oration to his Army
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
While his own lands are bargain'd for and sold.
And replant Henry in his former state.
Emilia run you to the citadel,
daring the reports of my tongue.
them to mending. They say the lady is fair, 'tis a
Instance, briefly, come, instance.
Digging
shall not a maid be married, but she shall pay to me
Drawing his sword
We'll set thee to school to an ant, to teach thee
May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to
Will not go from my mind, I have much to do,
Now, citizens of Angiers, ope your gates,
For that good hand thou sent'st the emperor.
Whose party do the townsmen yet admit?
How things go from him, nor resumes no care
more condoling.
Here's our chief guest.
o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
And never yet could frame my will to it,
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
That stroke would prove the worst!
the thunder would not peace at my bidding, there I
That's the way, for women are light at midnight.
Enter BEATRICE
That proof is call'd impossibility.
Very good.
Were't not that we stand up against them all,
For ruin's wasteful entrance: there, the murderers,
With the Duke of Suffolk.
For government, though high and low and lower,
Here shall he see
Gives not the hawthorn-bush a sweeter shade
That's something yet: Edgar I nothing am.
give the dozen white luces in their coat.
Come on, Nerissa, I have work in hand
'Tis very true: but that time offer'd sorrow,
To the sea-side, and put his cause and quarrel
Up to the breach, you dogs! avaunt, you cullions!
Why, I have lost him too.
By the Lord, a buck-basket! rammed me in with foul
I would I were,
Approaching near these eyes, would drink my tears
Latin, Praeclarissimus filius noster Henricus, Rex
That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he--
O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm,--
In the fair multitude of those her hairs!
Which I protest against--I am assisted
More pregnantly than words. Yet you do well
'Tis the king's subtlety to have my life.
Well then, once in my days I'll be a madcap.
I know I can do it.
Where, by the loss of maidenhead,
I have seen him in France: we had very many there
Go, then my mother, to thy daughter go
And, ere my knee rise from the earth's cold face,
Their power, I think, is thirty thousand strong:
I'll be with you, niece, by and by.
away the fool, therefore, I say again, take her away.
Good gentlemen, let me have leave to speak:
and my staff understands me.
Madam, the Lady Valeria is come to visit you.
pence apiece of Yead Miller, by these gloves.
With old Menenius, and those senators
Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire!
And when your honours mean to solemnize
Sir, sooth to say, you did not dine at home.
And nothing is at a like goodness still,
When you are gentle, you shall have one too,
How many of you have mine eyes beheld!
Yet wrung with wrongs more than our backs can bear:
Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings,
Which, when it bites and blows upon my body,
And set abroad new business for you all?
may be said to be an equivocator with lechery:
Since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear:
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
I have slept, my lord, already.
the streets, and at every corner have them kiss. Away!
Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred,
Alarum. Exeunt
Come you hither to me, Master tapster. What's your
He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
Like to his island girt in with the ocean,
So 'tis reported, sir.
As heartily as he is glad he hath him.
SCENE IV. Rome. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
Away with him!
You take my house when you do take the prop
because I do. Look, here comes the duke.
Immortal Dian!
Bear free and patient thoughts. But who comes here?
I have lived
A figure of truth, of faith, of loyalty:
Let fortune go to hell for it, not I.
And cried 'A crown, or else a glorious tomb!
In faith,
That I neither feel how she should be loved nor
[Aside]  Short summers lightly have a forward spring.
And all the priests and friars in my realm
ACT IV
shelter hereabouts: misery acquaints a man with
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
By the triple Hecate's team,
Now do thou watch, for I can stay no longer.
If't be your pleasure and most wise consent,
Touching the Turkish loss, yet he looks sadly,
Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly,
Should be presented at our tent to us.
Leave me, or tarry, Edward will be king,
Why, what is Tybalt?
Not of you.
Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.
It is a quarrel just and reasonable,
Sworn to us in your younger enterprise.
O, peace! and the spirit of humour intimate reading
What, what? his choler?
You are one of those
Sweet prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.
No:
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
Saw I him touch'd with anger so distemper'd.
That will I show you presently.
Or we will plague thee with incessant wars.
Will guard your person while you take your rest,
Shall Rome,  and c. Speak, strike, redress!
By Jupiter, I swear, no.
What is her mother?
With this my son, Prince Edward, Henry's heir,
He has almost supp'd: why have you left the chamber?
Then let the worst unheard fall on your bead.
Has deserved prison, then abound in tears
Enter HECATE to the other three Witches
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet,
thine, Ireland is thine, France is thine, and Harry
and, by this hand, she falls me thus about my neck--
By the bad voice.
As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain
Will I not think of home, but follow arms.
If, rather than to marry County Paris,
Exeunt
You shall digest the venom of your spleen,
ACT I
A very pleasing night to honest men.
The County Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
Crack thy frail case! Apace, Eros, apace.
For to a vision so apparent rumour
Geese, villain!
The traitor speak, and timorously confess
There's many a gentle person made a Jack.
Have you collected them by tribes?
necessary for a cut-purse, a good nose is requisite
And I'll spring up in his tears, an 'twere a nettle
Poor harmless fly,
And I shall find you empty of that fault,
Alarum. Enter MARK ANTONY, in a march, SCARUS, with others
Thou art a villain to impeach me thus:
With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed:
And put us to our answer.
O Fate! take not away thy heavy hand.
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
deservest it.
Knock at the gate! O heavens! Spake you not these
My lord, he is but even now gone hence:
Some stay to see him fasten'd in the earth.
There is some strange misprision in the princes.
SCENE II: Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
And there is in this business more than nature
Against infection and the hand of war,
Shake quoth the dove-house: 'twas no need, I trow,
Be not obdurate, open thy deaf ears.
John, saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter.
By tasting of our wrath? How of descent
And then a mind put in't, either our brags
For long agone I have forgot to court,
Thawing cold fear, that mean and gentle all,
Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.
the idle husewife with me this afternoon.
Should I lie, madam?
Provokes me to this threefold perjury,
Which if thou please to hide in this true bosom.
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold.
Gramercy, lovely Lucius: what's the news?
Exeunt
Exeunt
you flout old ends any further, examine your
Image of pride, why should I hold my peace?
And now I should not lie, but will deserve
Nay, nay, to the purpose.
I have eyes upon him,
must have that thanks from Rome, after the measure
cover, they show well outward. The prince and Count
The rough and woeful music that we have,
Why, man?
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree:
speak in a monstrous little voice. 'Thisne,
To the rock, to the rock with him!
This toil of ours should be a work of thine,
Why dost thou lead these men about the streets?
But ere I last received the sacrament
To have no man come over me! why, shall I always
Shall I try friends: you shall perceive how you
your father's tenant, these fourscore years.
drowned: go, look after him.
Into the hands of one that loves you not,
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
SPRING.
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
Good sooth, even thus, therefore ha' done with words:
My lord, when at their home
Let us once lose our oaths to find ourselves,
How I did thrive in this fair lady's love,
Exit BIGOT
This blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child
You are potently opposed, and with a malice
Thou art no soldier.
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
Who is the sink o' the body,--
And there I'll rest, as after much turmoil
It is not so express'd: but what of that?
perfecter giber for the table than a necessary
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
That he which finds him shall deserve our thanks,
From the east to western Ind,
My servant, sir! 'Twas never merry world
Yet never know how that desert should be.
que je suis le bon ecolier, j'ai gagne deux mots
What's the matter with thee now?
What news with thee, AEmilius?
A most high miracle!
Now, sir, what news?
Is stopp'd with dust, the first of April died
What, did these rent lines show some love of thine?
SCENE II. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
Call Peter, he will show thee where they are.
My lord, I am more amazed at his dishonour
Now will I hence to seek my lovely Moor,
A better prince and benign lord,
Why?
To see how inly sorrow gripes his soul.
of his act.
Pays interest for 't, his land's put to their books.
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
I cannot project mine own cause so well
Who shall ask it?
They are.
You, sir! why, what are you?
Rosalind: if I could meet that fancy-monger I would
Look, here it is.
And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.
There's other work in hand: I see a thing
Enter LADY MACBETH
Wherefore are these things hid? wherefore have
Then wish me better, I will give you leave.
So kind a father of the commonweal,
It is apparent foul play, and 'tis shame
'Frets, call you these?' quoth she, 'I'll fume
Returns with precious jading to the bay
To pray Achilles see us at our tent.
I will discharge thee ere I go from thee:
In confutation of which rude reproach
stings, our unbitted lusts, whereof I take this that
In such another trick. Go bring the rabble,
I'll set thee free for this.
Exeunt AGAMEMNON and NESTOR
No, not to-night.
Exeunt
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
And kingly government of this your land,
Fetch in our wood and serves in offices
And after summer evermore succeeds
Go, go, dispatch.
When I was with him I have heard him swear
The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores,
My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.
When we have march'd our rackets to these balls,
Some of those seven are dried by nature's course,
O Doricles,
Exeunt
That o'er the files and musters of the war
Opposed, as it must be, by the power of the king:
To revenge is no valour, but to bear.
God in heaven bless her!
Nor do I thee: though I did wish him dead,
Re-enter CAESAR and his Train
Because that I am little, like an ape,
Mine ears against your suits are stronger than
Re-enter LYSANDER
More than my father's skill, which was the greatest
No, sir, their hats are pluck'd about their ears,
When your young nephew Titus lost his leg:
They sale of offices and towns in France,
Or rather, call my thought a certain knowledge--
I dare no longer stay.
His wit set down to make his valour live
By putting on the cunning of a carper.
house-eaves, because they are lecherous. The duke
Not yet on summer's death, nor on the birth
Marry, after they closed in earnest, they parted very
Is as a whisper in the ears of death,
Shall witness I set forth as soon as you
Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest--
he hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust he
To answer that, I should confess to you.
Have cost a mass of public treasury.
lay knife aboard, but she, good soul, had as lief
You do me mischief. Fie, Demetrius!
And each hour's joy wrecked with a week of teen.
And, lest thou shouldst detect him, cut thy tongue.
Retaining but a quantity of life,
This day I'll rise, or else add ill to ill.
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
Is now due debt. To the grave!
And so he comes, to rend his limbs asunder.
By one whom she esteemeth as his friend.
The want that makes him lean. Who dares, who dares,
His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,
and such like, the spice and salt that season a man?
What enterprise, Popilius?
What can man's wisdom
Gracious madam,
'The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man
He is arrested, but will not obey,
A better speech was never spoke before,
her so much as sip on a cup with the proudest of
Whiles thou art waking.
Exeunt
Enter a Messenger
Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie.
Let no such man be trusted. Mark the music.
And pay the debt I never promised,
What, art thou stiff? stand'st out?
And worse than Progne I will be revenged:
And, to be noted for a merry man,
And look on death itself! up, up, and see
I say, amen.
After the last enchantment you did here,
That no man hath recourse to her by night.
Shuts up his windows, locks far daylight out
The issue of an irreligious Moor,
These growing feathers pluck'd from Caesar's wing
Marry, this: Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March.
Unfit to hear moral philosophy:
Not for Bohemia, nor the pomp that may
My lord, you have my voice to it, the fault's
encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are. When
The king himself is rode to view their battle.
Is the desire that's glorious: blest be those,
No bond but to do just ones. Gods! if you
She has a huswife's hand, but that's no matter:
ninescore and seventeen pounds, of which he made
Your grace mistakes, only to be brief
My hair doth stand on end to hear her curses.
Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman?
As honest madam's issue? Why brand they us
Our knocking has awaked him, here he comes.
Unlike than this thou tell'st. I lost my children:
found so severe, that he hath forced me to tell him
Madam, I'll take my leave.
the war, the Roman wars, in the way of argument,
Humanely taken, all, all lost, quite lost,
Henry the Fifth, thy ghost I invocate:
Captain Jamy is a marvellous falourous gentleman,
There is a law in each well-order'd nation
Throwing the money back
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
This will I do, and this I will advise you:
You may not pass, you must return: our general
By working wreakful vengeance on thy foes.
It is great sin to swear unto a sin,
designs, and of great import indeed, too, but let
As clears her from all blame.
Halloo, halloo, loo, loo!
Withdrew me from the odds of multitude:
No words, no words: hush.
That hardly we escaped the pride of France.
liquor. Ah, ha! Mistress Ford and Mistress Page
Are they return'd?
Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick?
This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant
We must return to the court of guard: the night
planetary influence, and all that we are evil in,
Agreed.
The Great.
And by the hope I have of heavenly bliss,
Leonatus' friends.
Repose you there, while I to this hard house--
The heavens forbid
I will inform your father.
But in the loss of question,--that you, his sister,
But kill'd itself much sooner.
As stuff for these two to make paradoxes.
Good morrow, Ajax.
old man: but I came from her, Master Brook, like a
And fright our native peace with self-born arms.
Ay, sir, they be ready: the oats have eaten the horses.
Letting 'I dare not' wait upon 'I would,'
Wears out his time, much like his master's ass,
As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard.
can lick their fingers.
For here I read for certain that my ships
speak you.
Enter an armed Soldier
Why, so I say.
I know 'twill stir him strongly, yet I know
I had a monopoly out, they would have part on't:
I will fetch off my bottle, though I be o'er ears
Receive the ring again.
When ye first put this dangerous stone a-rolling,
Exeunt
My lord, I hear.
And make some pretty match with shedding tears?
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus from the courtezan's
Betid to any creature in the vessel
Herald shews him another paper
If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer
I would be loath to have you overflown with a
Be those with swords?
Who died, and was Fidele. What think you?
O, gentlemen, help!
I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter!
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
That never saw the giant world enraged,
Long live King Henry! Plantagenet embrace him.
Thus, in this strange and sad habiliment,
And have my thanks for all.
There's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.
Nor I.
Are all things fitting for that royal time?
Go you to hunting, I'll abide with him.
filled up with guts and midriff. Charge an honest
Go in to him, and fetch him out.
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
Me a groat!
Transformed with their fear, who swore they saw
the devils of hell be drawn in little, and Legion
A gross fat man.
gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
daughter of most rare note: the report of her is
So is Lysander.
And may not young men die, as well as old?
Drinks
In spring time,  and c.
Can you still dream and pore and thereon look?
Can buy this unprized precious maid of me.
A sunny look of his would soon repair
On Wednesday next we solemnly set down
She-wolf of France, but worse than wolves of France,
You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
In what we can, to bridle and suppress
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder,
And corn shall fly asunder: for, I know,
liberty into bondage: I will deal in poison with
Bedlam, have done.
I know she is an irksome brawling scold:
Beyond the infinite and boundless reach
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
this other day, because I was no gentleman born.
to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio,
I smell the blood of a British man.
Clock strikes
Wilt live, fly after: and like an arrow shot
Stand close, I hear them coming.
undone! Fly, run, hue and cry, villain! I am undone!
I am sure you both of you remember me.
Would she begin a sect, might quench the zeal
For I fear Cassio with my night-cap too--
Now, my sweet guardian! Hark, a word with you.
art full of error, I am sound.
Find liable to our crown and dignity,
Daring an opposite to every danger:
She's beautiful, and therefore to be woo'd,
It is, my lord.
'Tis not an hour since I left him well:
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
The best-condition'd and unwearied spirit
And wherein Rome hath done you any scath,
That knew'st this was the prince,
To undergo such ample grace and honour,
now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo, now art
are but lightly rewarded.
Whilst, with no softer cushion than the flint,
In Richard's time,--what do you call the place?--
Aside
What beast was't, then,
Hear the crier.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Shall Ajax fight with Hector?
Thanks, brave Montgomery, and thanks unto you all:
left to protest.
Come, your answer in broken music, for thy voice is
conduct of the lady. I am no fighter. I have heard
Imagine I have said farewell already.
Was not thy father, Richard Earl of Cambridge,
SCENE II. London. An apartment of the Prince's.
The gates shut on me, and turn'd weeping out,
And therefore, by His majesty I swear,
mighty, rotting
And truly, as I hope to live.
Once I encounter'd him, and thus I said:
Must not be measured by his worth, for then
Conceptions only proper to myself,
Why should he, then, protect our sovereign,
Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
I am: what must we understand by this?
And aid me with that store of power you have
As worldlings do, giving thy sum of more
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
Therefore meet.
A very valiant rebel of the name.
Deep clerks she dumbs, and with her needle composes
You rogue, they were bound, every man of them, or I
Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
To soft and gentle speech.
With slow but stately pace kept on his course,
Some hangman must put on my shroud and lay me
Into the flame.
not have made him so ill, though he had been but two
SCENE VII. Another part of the field.
Enter KENT
I would I had been there.
Never, my lord: but I have heard him oft
Learning is but an adjunct to ourself
Enter two or three Lords
To ROSALINE
Destroy our friends and after weep their dust
A league from Epidamnum had we sail'd,
Thus stands it with me: upon a true contract
Music
And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship:
Myself and what is mine to you and yours
How now, Simple! where have you been? I must wait
Of what I have begun.
Brach Merriman, the poor cur is emboss'd,
To-day will I set forth, to-morrow you.
I was adopted heir by his consent:
O, turn thy edged sword another way,
Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch:
Thou art resolved?
[Aside to ARIEL]  My tricksy spirit!
the weather or our office.
father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them.
How now! what's the matter?
No, but there's a woman with maid by him. You have
baggage would but give way to customers.
Lend me thy hand, and I will give thee mine.
What, can you do me greater harm than hate?
'Tis very true: thou didst it excellent.
on my back forty eight.
The ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam,
I love no colours, and without all colour
Continues still a Jove.
Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom
You worthy tribunes,--
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
I know it well, sir, you have an exchequer of words,
In brief, to set the needless process by,
You must begin, 'Will you, Orlando--'
Which makes me fear the enjoying of my love:
found his heir?
Did follow to his urn.
And yet, thy wealth being forfeit to the state,
in.
Mangles true judgment and bereaves the state
Peter, forsooth.
For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
It strains me past the compass of my wits:
As if some planet had unwitted men--
Of his true state.
Not Neoptolemus so mirable,
I hope he be in love.
I have fought with thee: so often hast thou beat me,
Ay, defiled land, my lord.
on him, I charge you, in the duke's name. O, my
And of it left his son imperial lord.
Which we durst never yet, and with strain'd pride
Help me, my women! O, he is more mad
Therein, ye gods, you tyrants do defeat:
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
I hope my master's suit will be but cold,
I do, I will.
to offend no man, and it is an offence to stay a
Pray you, content you.
That in a Christian climate souls refined
chin, and one of them is white.
That makes the weight: had I great Juno's power,
Thy tears are salter than a younger man's,
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
Why, I am sure, if he forfeit, thou wilt not take
love to take thy father for mine: so wouldst thou,
Before proud Athens he's set down by this,
Nor heady-rash, provoked with raging ire,
The commons hast thou rack'd, the clergy's bags
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
God's peace! I would not lose so great an honour
The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras
SCENE II. Padua. LUCENTIO'S house.
brought to pass under the profession of
I go.
And Anne my wife hath bid the world good night.
A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus.
To use one language in each several clime
Once this,--your long experience of her wisdom,
heart you love her, being out of heart that you
Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.
On the unsteadfast footing of a spear.
Cries, ah, ha! to the devil:
That living wrought me such exceeding trouble.
So many journeys may the sun and moon
The heads of Oxford, Salisbury, Blunt, and Kent:
Faith, there had been many great men that have
To seek new friends and stranger companies.
I warrant you.
To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit, and he that
It is not Agamemnon's sleeping hour:
Falstaff's and our meeting, they will at once
What shall you ask of me that I'll deny,
Home to my house. O most unhappy day!
What is he more than another?
Exeunt
like a malecontent, to relish a love-song, like a
If you may please to think I love the king
Why then it sorts, brave warriors, let's away.
never acted, or, if it was, not above once, for the
does me this wrong. Terms! names! Amaimon sounds
Canst thou believe thy living is a life,
By this Lord Angelo perceives he's safe,
Advance our standards, set upon our foes
Hath given the duchy of Anjou and Maine
Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right,
To stop his wounds, lest he do bleed to death.
And never borrow any tear of thee.
Curtsy, sweet hearts, and so the measure ends.
I give him curses, yet he gives me love.
Ajax hath ta'en AEneas: shall it be?
If I be so disgracious in your sight,
After your will, have cross'd the sea, attending
With gobbets of thy mother's bleeding heart.
Keep some state in thy exit, and vanish.
To aspire unto the crown and reign as king.
Their rotten privilege and custom 'gainst
Then let confusion of one part confirm
Ay, amen!
shearers prove sheep, let me be unrolled and my name
With all their sixty, fly and turn the rudder:
and a dram dead, then recovered again with
Though their injunction be to bar my doors,
To stand against the deep dread-bolted thunder?
Look, and thou shalt see.
Tell thou the lamentable tale of me
My good lords, hitherto, in all the progress
Upward of twenty years, and have been blest
To bid his young son welcome to his grave?
Beaumont and Marle, Vaudemont and Lestrale.
But let my trial be mine own confession:
gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
Reads
He hath abandoned his physicians, madam, under whose
She that I spake of, our great captain's captain,
But O! the devil'--there the villain stopp'd
'That I receive the general food at first,
From a well-experienced archer hits the mark
The barks of trees thou browsed'st, on the Alps
Exeunt
royalty of her father: draw, you rogue, or I'll so
Not out of doors!
Do I so? take thou that.
Were he to stand for consul, never would he
Twixt me and death,'--and pointed to this brace,--
Beseeching him to give her virtuous breeding--
Go with me to a notary, seal me there
No, and swears she never will: that's her torment.
Vexations of it! Had I been thief-stol'n,
Calpurnia!
A partial slander sought I to avoid,
So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring.
Seem to break loose, take on as you would follow,
the verity of it is in strong suspicion: has the king
thy sovereign.
Keep then far league and truce with thy true bed,
modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
And do you now strew flowers in his way
Exit
Her eyelids, cases to those heavenly jewels
This be not cherish'd.
To give his censure: these are no women's matters.
Meetest for death: the weakest kind of fruit
Therefore am I of an honourable house.
Are mock'd for valiant ignorance,
For the inheritance of their loves and safeguard
And wherefore gaze this goodly company,
Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
Tush, I will stir about,
And this small packet of Greek and Latin books:
SCENE VI. Near the camp of Cominius.
It dies, an if it had a thousand lives.
have a cake out of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding.
And, when thou wed'st, let sorrow haunt thy bed,
And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,
rather die than give any sign of affection. I did
Awake, awake!
Than hath been taught by any of my trade:
that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death
Beyond a common joy, and set it down
And when he heard him swear and vow to God
When better fall, for your avails they fell:
Why, I pray you?
And to do that well craves a kind of wit:
Speak, old AEgeon, if thou be'st the man
And in her heart she scorns our poverty:
And pluck'd two crutches from my feeble limbs,
There will be woe indeed, lords: the sly whoresons
I am no villain.
Where both not sin, and yet a sinful fact:
To your best kindness: one of your great knowing
Faith, here it is.
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
how thine eye would emulate the diamond: thou hast
The loss of such a lord includes all harm.
Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
In war was never lion raged more fierce,
Armed in arguments, you'll be surprised:
Love! ay, that it shall, i' faith.
flinch, chide me for it.
Yes, you are.
Faintly besiege us one hour in a month.
Re-enter EDMUND
you do not use me with that affability as in
Not to be spoke of,
Though all the world should crack their duty to you,
To punish me with this and this with me,
Damn'd in the first beginners!--gan to look
Ay, spare us not. Say we read lectures to you.
I mean, that married her, alack, good man!
Yet again! what do you here? Shall we give o'er
Into Hey nonny, nonny.
And I will speak, that so my heart may burst.
[To KING RICHARD III]
Most best, most dearest, should in this trice of time
Such different issues. You spoke not with her since?
And all the faith, the virtue of my heart,
flayed already.
[To KING RICHARD III]
And bids you be advised there's nought in France
A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
There to meet with Macbeth.
I dream'd there was an Emperor Antony:
Marry, I will, and this is wisely done.
To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
In troth, I think I should, and undo't when I had
Let me see: marry, ill, to like him that ne'er it
For which I will divide my crown with her,
Abate throw at novum, and the whole world again
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
Should see salvation: we do pray for mercy,
[Beneath]  Swear.
Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.
to him, it's all one: by God's lid, it does one's
We have made to endure friends, that you directly
Or else he must not only die the death,
Do bravely, horse! for wot'st thou whom thou movest?
O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread,
That hath more scars of sorrow in his heart
Well, well, come on: who else?
Exeunt
Fly with false aim, move the still-peering air,
And now he's there, past thought of human reason.
Oppressed nature sleeps:
what 'cerns it you if I wear pearl and gold? I
but, as you say, sir, let your bounty take a nap, I
I think thee now some common customer.
And after, this: and then to breakfast with
For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog,
any thing and yet a fool.
Exeunt
Enter AARON, with a bag of gold
Of fickle changelings and poor discontents,
Whence, driven before the winds, he is arrived
Charles Duke of Orleans, nephew to the king,
If the duke be guiltless,
pillage and robbery. Now, if these men have
Lent him our terror, dress'd him with our love,
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light:
The cambric, which she made more sound
Every day thou daffest me with some device, Iago,
The trumpet sounds retreat, the day is ours.
O, twice my father, twice am I thy son!
Here, at your lordship's service.
As England was his faithful tributary,
Here's Beaufort, that regards nor God nor king,
We wait upon your grace.
Believe me, sister, of all the men alive
Is crown'd so soon, and broke his solemn oath?
And, worthy warrior, welcome to our tents.
Enter GRATIANO, LORENZO, SALARINO, and SALANIO
Well, that's set down.
O my Antonio, had I but the means
To load thy merit richly. Call my women:
Proceed to judgment: by my soul I swear
have greatness thrust upon 'em. Thy Fates open
You know I am a woman, lacking wit
to entreat me to 't.
These high wild hills and rough uneven ways
In limited professions. Rascal thieves,
'twas for shift.
good discretion.
Joy absent, grief is present for that time.
Self-mettle tires him. Not a man in England
But see thy fault! France hath in thee found out
Like to a bubbling fountain stirr'd with wind,
Michael, good night: to-morrow with your earliest
Have not to do with him, beware of him,
Give pardon to my speech:
nothing, nuncle?
Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love,
Divert and crack, rend and deracinate
Alcibiades banished!
ANTIPHOLUS
What, will these hands ne'er be clean?--No more o'
But, soft, I pray you: what, did Caesar swound?
justice, sir, and do bring in here before your good
Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast.
So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives,
for breath to utter what is like thee! you
Master, I have gone through for this piece, you see:
What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say.
Are then in council, and the state of man,
For many of our princes--woe the while!--
Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke?
Rosalind: so adieu.
Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman? If
and use him as he uses thee, so, farewell.
But ere the crown he looks for live in peace,
I know thou'rt valiant, and, to the possibility of
What says my lord?
Prayers and tears have moved me, gifts could never.
Loath to depose the child, Your brother's son,
Ay, and that tongue of his that bade the Romans
Our business valued, some twelve days hence
To PROCULEIUS and the Guard
Surprised him suddenly, and brought him hither,
Keep it, I cannot eat it.
That we'll forsake ourselves. Give me that ring.
Can he not be sociable?
Your pleasure, sir?
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your
By ought that I can speak in his dispraise,
For at Saint Mary's chapel presently
a leg, put off's cap, kiss his hand and say nothing,
A touch, a touch, I do confess.
Be not afraid, she shall not harm thee, Helena.
That sets us all at odds: I'll not endure it:
He served with glory and admired success,
No, certainly.
Since now we will divest us both of rule,
'O, farewell, Warwick!'
To cozen fortune and be honourable
She's a beagle, true-bred, and one that adores me:
Now will I question Cassio of Bianca,
But, for the seventh cause, how did you find the
Out of the gripes of cruel men, and give it
I depart,--that, as I slew my best lover for the
Where men enforced do speak anything.
Till they obey the manage. If we suffer,
now shalt thou be moved. Give me a cup of sack to
Lie not a night from home, watch me like Argus:
But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name
you, he put it by once: but, for all that, to my
Re-enter BIONDELLO, with LUCENTIO and BIANCA
would think his mother's milk were scarce out of him.
Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
For when would you, my lord, or you, or you,
A very beadle to a humorous sigh,
There goes the Talbot, with his colours spread,
SCENE I. A forest in the north of England.
One on 's father's moods.
And I did give't my husband.
Without his top? The ruin speaks that sometime
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
Revenge upon the cardinal.
What means he now? Go ask him whither he goes.
orchard, were thus much overheard by a man of mine:
sulphurous pit,
Enough to make a whore forswear her trade,
in hand in sad conference: I whipt me behind the
What sneaking fellow comes yonder?
It almost turns my dangerous nature mild.
Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane,
out water in foul way?
Ay, fool.
I am a simple woman, much too weak
But sever'd in a pale clear-shining sky.
Like a tench! by the mass, there is ne'er a king
Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest
the university.
Which never dreamt on aught but butcheries:
Though I alone do feel the injury.
The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city:
Sell when you can: you are not for all markets:
Do I entice you? do I speak you fair?
But I will remedy this gear ere long,
A fever in your blood! why, then incision
In Antiochus and his daughter you have heard
What is amiss?
Which you will wonder at.
I am barr'd, like one infectious. My third comfort
Were it good, think you?
Approach, ho! All's not well: Caesar's beguiled.
Ay, the grinding, but you must tarry
Doth weep to see his grandsire's heaviness.
If you be well pleased with this
Why, then, dame Margaret was ne'er thy joy.
proclamation, but he made a groan at it, and swore
It is her habit only that is honest,
the pin-buttock, the quatch-buttock, the brawn
Upon the right hand I, keep thou the left.
And, to his shape, were heir to all this land,
Exeunt
Thou art reverent
ribbon, glass, pomander, brooch, table-book, ballad,
Villain, be sure thou prove my love a whore,
Now, for our consciences, the arms are fair,
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts,
To Caesar I will speak what you shall please,
How comes it, Michael, you are thus forgot?
That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
use fifty talents, hath sent to your lordship to
They are close delations, working from the heart
Why ask you? hear you aught of her in yours?
I think thou dost,
The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
The bug which you would fright me with I seek.
Had we done so at first, we had droven them home
Had never like executor. I forget:
They will'd me say so, madam.
Leonatus! a banished rascal, and he's another,
King did I call thee? no, thou art not king,
which is lost be not found.
Full of decay and failing? O monument
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
I mean, the business is not ended, as fearing to
To spy into abuses, and oft my jealousy
Sicilia cannot show himself over-kind to Bohemia.
And celebrate our drink?
Where is that ring, boy?
Nay, 'tis most credible, we here received it
As is the night before some festival
'Twas one's that loved me better than you will.
She is.
But what he did being childish?
Why, there then: thus I do escape the sorrow
Which she did use as she was writing of it,
Prince Pericles, touch not, upon thy life.
And therefore look you call me Ganymede.
Enter HORTENSIO
Exeunt
A wonder, or a wondrous miracle,
Which I shall send you written, be assured,
It shall be suffigance.
It is not you I call for:
Alack the day, I know you not, young gentleman:
Drawn on with torture.
Where it fits not you to know.
Now must the world point at poor Katharina,
That granted, how canst thou believe an oath?
That his own hand may strike his honour down
Exeunt
As to upbraid you with those kindnesses
Which are so weak of courage and in judgment
WARWICK and the rest cry all, 'Warwick! Warwick!'  and set upon the Guard, who fly, crying, 'Arm! arm!' WARWICK and the rest following them
Keep him out.
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
Crook-knee'd, and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls,
Upon the company you overtake?
In their so sacred paths he dares to tread
constant men be Troiluses, all false women Cressids,
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
If I had lost it,
And if your grace mark every circumstance,
Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.
Come hither, sir.
Shut up your doors, my lord, 'tis a wild night:
Thou needs must be englutted. Besides, in mercy,
and how he goes! O admirable youth! he ne'er saw
Without sweat or endeavour: treason, felony,
The issue of your proper wisdoms rate,
Bethought me what was past, what might succeed.
The worth that learned charity aye wears:
Their ragged curtains poorly are let loose,
dwell? Am I a married man or a bachelor? Then, to
He hath good usage and great liberty,
How prettily the young swain seems to wash
I am bound to you.
a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant, it
Cold friends to Richard: what do they in the north,
O heavy deed!
for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it
For a taste:
How now! what noise is that?
Good Corporal Nym, show thy valour, and put up your sword.
To ORLANDO
A parcel of their fortunes, and things outward
They fight, and EDGAR knocks him down
Tent in my cheeks, and schoolboys' tears take up
Repose in fame, none basely slain in brawls:
Then I'll go fetch an axe.
not men o' their words: they told me I was every
a copper nose.
Yea, for obtaining of suits, whereof the hangman
Ah, Joan, this kills thy father's heart outright!
You have too courtly a wit for me: I'll rest.
Must make content with his fortunes fit,
Which way to be prevented, if to be,
According to the weight and worthiness.
hadst been an ignis fatuus or a ball of wildfire,
To give this poor petition to the king,
A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
Strike off this score of absence. Sweet Bianca,
Terras Astraea reliquit:
See, see the pining malady of France,
Wherein the fortune of ten thousand men
Good morrow, fair ones: pray you, if you know,
indeed, he has no pace, but runs where he will.
Yes, and will nobly him remunerate.
I am to thank you for 't.
At thy affections, which do hold a wing
Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
be not too rough for some that know little but
Might be my question.
Which I with sword will open.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
My wife is nothing, nor nothing have these nothings,
That took away the match from Isabel,
By my troth, sir, no, though it please you to be
plough for her sweet love three years. But, most
The course of true love never did run smooth,
Leonato, stand I here?
Who they should be that have thus many led you?
The heavy accent of thy moving tongue
Worthy Camillo,
This whimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy,
Trebles thee o'er.
Under the gods, keep you in awe, which else
How is't, my lord? how look you?
And therefore, if you say no more than this,
I shall do good.
Should a villain say so,
To SILVIUS
He leaves his pledges dearer than his life:
My message must return from whence it came.
Whom whilst I labour'd of a love to see,
Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect
Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
Though far more cause, yet much less spirit to curse
So get the start of the majestic world
And younger hearings are quite ravished,
I do repent it from my very soul.
Though my estate be fallen, I was well born,
Enter LADY CAPULET
burthens of dildos and fadings, 'jump her and thump
Under the Dauphin.
We will entice the Duke of Burgundy
Faith, I saw it not, but I felt it hot in her breath.
Nor how to be contented with one wife,
Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we
Which the dark night hath so discovered.
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
my displeasure. That young start-up hath all the
I may not go without you to the kings.
as I said, there is no moe such Caesars: other of
Farewell.
But when he once attains the upmost round.
But welcome, as you are. What shall we do?
Singing
broken coxcomb. When you take occasions to see leeks
SCENE I. Without the Florentine camp.
Continued so, until we thought he died.
Such strong renown as time shall ne'er decay.
He shall not pass you. Twice have the trumpets sounded,
And sends allegiance and true faith of heart
Of what we think against thee.
To make this shameless callet know herself.
When was this?
Ladies, withdraw: the gallants are at hand.
More than I know the sound of Marcius' tongue
You are the happier woman.
Disorder, that hath spoil'd us, friend us now!
Unto the crown of France. That you may know
Good faith, across: but, my good lord 'tis thus,
He hath been out nine years, and away he shall
Enter a Messenger
Unbind my sons, reverse the doom of death,
uncoined constancy, for he perforce must do thee
And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread
SCENE III. Edward's camp, near Warwick.
I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness,
The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to
What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
SCENE III. Paris. The KING's palace.
Stands for my bounty. But who comes here?
If not fill up the measure of her will,
Are many simples operative, whose power
horses ready?
Art thou certain this is true? is it most certain?
Being the bosom lover of my lord,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
Give me your hand. Come you from old Bellario?
Thou art straightway with the fiends.
Of quick, cross lightning? to watch--poor perdu!--
To VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA,  and c
is a great argument of falsehood, if I love. And
Old as I am, to queen it: but, I pray you,
I pray you, mar no more of my verses with reading
I have done no harm. But I remember now
Have thy desire.
I will go meet them: and, my Lord AEneas,
[Aside]  I know that Deformed, a' has been a vile
The grappling vigour and rough frown of war
[To KING RICHARD III]
This is well, he has made us his vlouting-stog. I
Ay, if his enemy deliver it:
That e'er I heard: shall I produce the men?
Come, come, what need you blush? shame's a baby.
To every several man, seventy-five drachmas.
O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
From Tamworth thither is but one day's march.
So do you, good master doctor.
And no man else hath honour by his death.
If thou be he, then art thou prisoner.
Thou seest what's past, go fear thy king withal.
I am sure, have shown at full their royal minds--
What ruin happen'd in revenge of him,
Not shall we need his help these fourteen days.
And see our pleasure herein executed.
Force me to keep you as a prisoner,
We came aboard.
No, an he were, I would burn my study. But, I pray
But we will presently provide for them.
March afar off
You should for that have reprehended him.
But with the word the time will bring on summer,
And let the labouring bark climb hills of seas
Never so needful on the earth of France,
Err in bestowing it.
I cannot come to Cressid but by Pandar,
Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe:
May, if they think it well, let fall a tear,
CARDINAL
Touching the jointure that your king must make,
Is room enough: this earth that bears thee dead
What prisoners of good sort are taken, uncle?
And by his hollow whistling in the leaves
Or Ethiopian's tooth, or the fann'd
Or else she could not have the wit to do this: the
That's curdied by the frost from purest snow
Sir, speed you: what's your will?
Who is sweet Fortune's minion and her pride:
SCENE III. Warkworth castle
Nor, I'll assure you, better taken, sir.
No question.
Why, and I trust I may go too, may I not? What,
If I have any grace or power to move you,
Was done to death? and more than so, my father,
She was here even now, she haunts me in every place.
Go to.
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
Stay, Jaques, stay.
But didst thou see them dead?
Exit one with the Players
The wanton Edward, and the lusty George?
Their cheeks are paper. Why, what read you there
When Caesar says 'do this,' it is perform'd.
By him and by this woman here what know you?
And use it for my haste. Come, come, away!
She looks upon them with a threatening eye.
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Is not here passable.
Pistol, did you pick Master Slender's purse?
Fare thee well, nymph: ere he do leave this grove,
O plague and madness!
Call Claudius and some other of my men:
Re-enter PANDARUS with CRESSIDA
The Cardinal of Winchester forbids:
His days may finish ere that hapless time.
Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor,
Thine own true knight,
Where prayers cross.
And balms applied to, you, yet dare I never
Lest bleeding you do paint the white rose red
Yields up his life unto a world of odds:
Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.
And makes him roar these accusations forth.
Her eyes are grey as glass, and so are mine:
facility, and golden cadence of poesy, caret.
Have you done there?
Your suffering in this dearth, you may as well
Who shall take notice of thee: I'll move the king
it: I loved you not.
If you had won it, certainly you had.
Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,
This king unto him took a fere,
Must, as a foreign recreant, be led
Thy brother by decree is banished:
I am satisfied.
Even to madness. 'Tis here, but yet confused:
all his ancestors that come after him may: they may
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
Hath not essentially but by circumstance
Re-enter MACBETH and LENNOX, with ROSS
Enter Judges, Senators and Tribunes, with MARTIUS  and QUINTUS, bound, passing on to the place of execution, TITUS going before, pleading
A hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth,
Not so, my lord, it is not so, I swear,
Good my lord, be quiet.
Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and
To AUSTRIA
Ay, ay, Antipholus, look strange and frown:
Here is a hand to hold a sceptre up
Was Ajax, call'd so from his grandfather.
Who comes here?
I know, by that same eye, there's some good news.
Ay, by any means prove a tall fellow: if I do not
'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.
I pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.
For I intend but only to surprise him.
And thus I seal my truth, and bid adieu.
I will proclaim my name about the field:
Masking the business from the common eye
CORIOLANUS offers to go away
Which care of them, not pity of myself,
When thy poor heart beats with outrageous beating,
Away, thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant,
We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
As one incapable of her own distress,
Have patience, gentle Julia.
But so it is, my haste doth call me hence,
What should she remember?
Go fetch me a quart of sack, put a toast in't.
Of love, of worldly matters and direction,
And fair purgation to the world, than malice,
Then send for one presently.
smell so strongly as thou speakest of: I will
By my troth, it is well said, 'for himself to mar,'
[Aside to TROILUS]  Follow his torch, he goes to
Now, herald, are the dead number'd?
But there's a saying very old and true,
To make thy riches pleasant. What's yet in this
That have on both sides pass'd.
Our purposed hunting shall be set aside.
strangest mind i' the world, I delight in masques
And make us even with you. My thanes and kinsmen,
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
Makes us hear something.
magnanimous, are all one reckonings, save the phrase
How comes that?
Why, then you left me--O, the gods forbid!--
And if he speak of Buckingham, pray, tell him
Should have him thus restrain'd.
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own,
Each man's like mine, you have shown all Hectors.
He did, my gracious lord, begin that place,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
that thou't scarce worth.
There will little learning die then, that day thou
Now, out of this,--
Between my conscience and my cousin's death.
Music plays
The mind of Talbot, as you did mistake
I tell you, younglings, not Enceladus,
rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
Printing their proud hoofs i' the receiving earth,
This morning, like the spirit of a youth
his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous,
Then, if I have much love, I'll give you some.
What kind of woman is't?
no legacy is so rich as honesty.
Slight thing of Italy,
But, see, I am prevented.
And by the leave of my good lord the king,
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
SCENE IV. The Forest of Arden.
I muse my mother
A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,
A good man's fortune may grow out at heels:
The time when screech-owls cry and ban-dogs howl,
Exit
And paint your face and use you like a fool.
May be, nor can I think the contrary,
Than thou of them. Come all to ruin, let
That you yet know not of: we'll see our husbands
Hark, hark, you gods!
Exit Messenger
Thy deafening, dreadful thunders, gently quench
My speculative and officed instruments,
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
I'll have the current in this place damm'd up,
At his head a grass-green turf,
Your knee, sirrah.
This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
accusation, uncovered slander, unmitigated rancour,
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
Whom I affect, but she is nice and coy
too.
As if Time were in debt! how fondly dost thou reason!
No point, quoth I, my servant straight was mute.
Be govern'd by your knowledge, and proceed
To let you know my thoughts.
Enter AENEAS
Of my instruction hast thou nothing bated
Not almost appears,
O, widow Dido! ay, widow Dido.
That such a king should play bo-peep,
Give us kind keepers, heavens! What were these?
Out, dunghill! darest thou brave a nobleman?
To do this outrage: and it now is done.
That our superfluous lackeys and our peasants,
I'll yield myself to prison willingly,
If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke,
I tell you this: Caesar through Syria
And now 'tis up again: it must be married
O, we are undone, both we and ours for ever!
How durst thy tongue move anger to our face?
Let it not cumber your better remembrance.
a soldier.
Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded,
I'll rob none but myself, and let me die,
In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you,
And take our leave, until we meet in heaven.
Minds sway'd by eyes are full of turpitude.
Why, madam, that is to the Isle of Man,
cow short horns,' but to a cow too curst he sends none.
In this vile world? So, fare thee well.
The rest are princes, barons, lords, knights, squires,
You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain,
This is his majesty, say your mind to him:
I'll bring you to him straight.
The holy suit which fain it would convince,
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
Go whip him, 'fore the people's eyes:--his raising,
Poison, or fire, or suffocating streams,
No words!
soldest him on Good-Friday last for a cup of Madeira
Is general woe.
ladies out of their wits, they would have no more
Enter, and cry 'The Dauphin!' presently,
As doth the raven o'er the infected house,
In the division of each several crime,
Sir, my daughter thinks very well of you,
The sullen passage of thy weary steps
SCENE III. Florence. Before the DUKE's palace.
I give you welcome with a powerless hand,
That I, which know my heart, do here pronounce,
Best sing it to the tune of 'Light o' love.'
For such an end thou seek'st,--as base as strange.
And so beguile thy sorrow, till the heavens
been drowned, but that the shore was shelvy and
Since birth, and heaven, and earth, all three do meet
To hear the story of your life, which must
And power, unto itself most commendable,
The kindred of him hath been flesh'd upon us,
Howe'er you lean to the nayward.
Which thou shalt thereby reap is such a name,
After long absence, such is yours: most welcome!
I fear he will.
That I would choose, were I to choose anew.
Stabbing him
Advise thee, Aaron, what is to be done,
We first put out to sea.
him manifests the true knowledge he has in their
By Richard that dead is the next of blood?
That their good souls may be appeased with slaughter
What letter is this same? What's here? 'To Silvia'!
But Romeo may not: more validity,
A lover may bestride the gossamer
But, for my will, my will is your good will
You have conspired against our royal person,
Re-enter OPHELIA
pray you, leave me.
'Tis noble spoken.
Thither we bend again.
This handkercher was stain'd.
There's an old woman, a fat woman, gone up into his
it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
We may not think the justness of each act
other hour, I should derive much from't, for,
Discipled of the bravest: he lasted long,
est meilleur que l'Anglois lequel je parle.
base fear, offer to betray you and deliver all the
sucking dove, I will roar you an 'twere any
Here pitch our tents, even here in Bosworth field.
With thee and all thy best parts bound together,
And hardly kept our countrymen together,
Which is--no, no--which was the fairest dame
For by that name as oft as Lancaster
As sure as in this late-betrayed town
Lo, in these windows that let forth thy life,
Thus I mend it: Time himself is bald and therefore
As you would beg, were you in my distress
me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
O, my pardon!
To call for recompense. Appear it to your mind
Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
Perhaps I will return immediately:
When such a spacious mirror's set before him,
What were it but to make my sorrow greater?
Whom I employ'd was pre-employ'd by him:
Know, noble lord, they have devised a mean
therefore he is a traitor.
Upon the stroke of four.
Watching breeds leanness, leanness is all gaunt:
With due observance of thy godlike seat,
Her times of preservation, which perforce
O Jesu, my lord, my lord!
Re-enter LUCIUS with LIGARIUS
It was not brought me, my lord, there's the
When he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodies
The close enacts and counsels of the heart!
Let them have cushions by you. You are plebeians,
But on, my liege, for very little pains
A silly answer and fitting well a sheep.
Prithee, come, will you?
The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind
cross-gartered, even with the swiftness of putting
Up once again, put spirit in the French:
To gratulate thy plenteous bosom: th' ear,
We know him for no less, though we are but strangers
Your enemies are many, and not small, their practises
time, have napkins enow about you, here
a fool you were upon the ground.
As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable:
If we, with thrice such powers left at home,
They'll give him death by inches.
And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.'
becomes him better than any man in all Phrygia.
Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense
His honesty rewards him in itself,
A fortnight hold we this solemnity,
And that he is a bastard, not thy son:
Dost thou love pictures? we will fetch thee straight
So I, to find a mother and a brother,
Methinks you are too much of late i' the frown.
if thou account'st it shame. lay it on me,
the more wrong,' quoth I, ''twas I did the thing you
In faith, I cannot: what would you have me do?
'Tis he, my lord. Come hither, goodman baldpate:
Dies
beseech you, follow.
I claimed the crown, had issue, Philippe, a daughter,
The good patricians must be visited,
bosom, if ever man went to Arthur's bosom. A' made
Deny your love, so rich within his soul,
Or to the meanest groom.
He bade me, from him, call thee thane of Cawdor:
Stand to't.
That she did give me, whose posy was
What's the matter?
Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.
If wind and fuel be brought to feed it with:
Trust to't, bethink you, I'll not be forsworn.
Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of:
And these are not fairies? I was three or four
Enter MACDUFF
I shall be reconciled to him again.
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
Their medicinal gum. Set you down this,
Never did faithful subject more rejoice
Exeunt
My sole earth's heaven and my heaven's claim.
These violent delights have violent ends
Should not become my wife and England's queen.
infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the
How will the country for these woful chances
Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat,
Upon the caves of Nile.
And therefore has he closely mew'd her up,
The other, that he do record a gift,
and their consent of one direct way should be at
That thus affect'st a sheep-hook! Thou old traitor,
Not changing heart with habit, I am still
For I am rough and woo not like a babe.
What wouldst thou write of me, if thou shouldst
ANTIPHOLUS
Rather than so, come fate into the list.
I do not think there is any such woman.
This man hath my consent to marry her.
Our discontented counties do revolt,
As if thou never walk'st further than Finsbury.
With viewing of the town: there shall you have me.
Then where you please, and shall be thought most fit
I like your silence, it the more shows off
torches, walking with thee in the night betwixt
'Tis so, my lord.
Call you me fair? that fair again unsay.
She the adulteress, for the harlot king
mio Petruchio.' Rise, Grumio, rise: we will compound
shent for speaking to you.
And once again we'll sleep secure in Rouen.
perchance of the duke's death, perchance entering
Under whose heavy sense your brother's life
Bow, stubborn knees, and, heart with strings of steel,
Of trotting 'paritors:--O my little heart:--
Exit Servant
Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
What news? what news?
Upon this land a thousand thousand blessings,
Is troth-plight to your daughter. Good Paulina,
Ah, who is nigh? come to me, friend or foe,
From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.
Or, Hubert, if you will, cut out my tongue,
Trib, trib, fairies, come, and remember your parts:
Boy, thou hast said to me a thousand times
He hath spoken true: the very dice obey him,
She gives the cursed bawd. Here we her place,
Proportionable to the enemy
I am out of all other tune, methinks.
out of order. Come, march forward.
That have inflamed desire in my breast
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Exit SNOUT
have bad dreams.
not Goliath with a weaver's beam, because I know
And bury all, which yet distinctly ranges,
For this night's watching.
Great men oft die by vile bezonians:
And as poor as Job?
And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
Ay me! this tyrant fever burns me up,
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
For of joy, being altogether wanting,
Made proud by princes, that advance their pride
There's some in hope.
Come all to help him, and so stop the air
Yet, ere you shall depart, this we desire,
Ye light o' love, with your heels! then, if your
From the most gracious regent of this land,
wine: but if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth
O, flatter me, for love delights in praises.
O blessed breeding sun, draw from the earth
Gentle madam,
This side is Hiems, Winter, this Ver, the Spring,
--Command silence.
Then, Pompey, nor now. What news abroad, friar?
With toss-pots still had drunken heads,
I'll tell thee more of this another time:
I thank thee for that humour.
With faces fit for masks, or rather fairer
bill, and many a time, when I have been dry and
Was this the idol that you worship so?
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
But, touch'd with human gentleness and love,
Not a relation for a breakfast nor
She speaks much of her father, says she hears
Answering the letter of the oracle,
Is to be frighted out of fear, and in that mood
ANTIPHOLUS
Since maids, in modesty, say 'no' to that
But far unfit to be a sovereign.
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
What counts harsh fortune casts upon my face,
Be emptied to redeem a traitor home?
Exit Attendant
He's simple and tells much.
The hostess of the meeting: pray you, bid
ANTIPHOLUS
Good man, the wounds that he does bear for Rome!
As you respect the common good, the state
For henceforth of poor Claudio.
Rather our state's defective for requital
And, if the rest be true which I have heard,
Tremble at patience. You, my lord, best know,
Claudio must die to-morrow: let him be furnished
Here I am, thou particular fellow.
I would my father look'd but with my eyes.
Are in the field: a mighty strength they carry.
The empress' sons, I take them, Chiron and Demetrius.
I would I had, so I had broke thy pate,
Dispraise the thing that you desire to buy:
Under an oak whose antique root peeps out
Confess it, th' one to th' other, and thine eyes
SCENE V. The English camp near Bourdeaux.
If beauty have a soul, this is not she,
Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth.
With very easy arguments of love,
By Hercules, I think I am i' the right.
Whose top-branch overpeer'd Jove's spreading tree
He, being in the vaward, placed behind
And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next--
To take from you the jewel you hold so dear.
Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE HENRY, and others
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
Didst note it?
Let's make no stay.
Thy now unsured assurance to the crown,
Some violent hands were laid on Humphrey's life!
I say, my daughter is my flesh and blood.
Orsino, this is that Antonio
Thy son is banish'd upon good advice,
Why, Warwick, who should do the duke to death?
Do me the favour to dilate at full
Losing both beauty and utility.
But I am shepherd to another man
me. Wenches, I'll buy for you both. Pedlar, let's
When every thing seems double.
Do like the mutines of Jerusalem,
Away! be gone.
And lands restored again be freely granted:
Since I have here my father's gift in's will.
'Ask me no reason why I love you, for though
Music. Enter the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
That comes in likeness of a coal-black Moor.
Exit
You chose her, then I'ld shriek, that even your ears
you have reason, be brief: 'tis not that time of
is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries, when
And chides with thinking.
And toil'd with works of war, retired himself
You we first seize on.
We will unite the white rose and the red:
Re-enter ANNE PAGE
By heaven, thy love is black as ebony.
Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
The king my father did in Tarsus leave me,
Of all his people and freeze up their zeal,
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
My honest grief unto him, and, as my lord,
I know the boy will well usurp the grace,
For her poor brother's pardon.
Nay, stay, by Jove, I will not speak a word:
Why should this a desert be?
They told me, here, at dead time of the night,
But what serve for the thunder?--Precious villain!
Is come from Caesar, therefore hear it, Antony.
If he had gone forth consul, found it so.
Put forth thy hand, reach at the glorious gold.
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,
I am your lordship's.
Go get you gone, and let the papers lie:
melancholy as she is, that it cannot but turn him
So please your majesty, my master hath been an
By them shall make a fuller number up,
I will not meet with you to-morrow night:
Stands in some rank of praise.
True! O God!
Who makest a show but darest not strike, thy conscience
And her troth plight,
Made in her concave shores?
O gods!
And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
But to your protestation, let me hear
Be call'd your vanquisher.
Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
I'll to thy closet, and go read with thee
What power is it which mounts my love so high,
if thou beest capable of things serious, thou must
One hundred twenty six: added to these,
What more fearful?
And punish that before that he would punish.
or staggering take this basket on your shoulders:
SCENE I. Dunsinane. Ante-room in the castle.
armadoes of caracks to be ballast at her nose.
Dost thou detest her therefore?
Than to die well and not my master's debtor.
Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
Blood and revenge are hammering in my head.
That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,
And, brother York, thy acts in Ireland,
The thickest and the tallest.
parishioners, for their sons are well tutored by
And feebling such as stand not in their liking
it. Nay, friar, I am a kind of burr, I shall stick.
I was taken with none, sir: I was taken with a damsel.
And wrath o'erwhelm'd my pity: I request you
You're welcome, gentlemen.
The justice of your bearts will thereto add
Ilium? good niece, do, sweet niece Cressida.
May be more free.
Nay, it is in a manner done already,
If that be all, masters, I hear no harm.
Tom's a-cold.
What's he comes here?
Brave Titinius!
When you have well deserved ten times as much
But stop their mouths with stubborn bits, and spur 'em,
With all my heart, my liege.
That I assure you:
My lords of England, let me tell you this:
How she holds up the neb, the bill to him!
Alarum. Enter a Son that has killed his father, dragging in the dead body
All senses to that sense did make their repair,
Sirrah, hast thou a knife? come, let me see it.
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
What a coil's here!
To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure.
to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I loved thy brother:
Smells wooingly here: no jutty, frieze,
That, if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us
Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline,
Lord Angelo, having affairs to heaven,
Shall we, upon the footing of our land,
And I did never ask it you again,
accusative, hung, hang, hog.
Or is he but retired to make him strong?
The rest stand all aloof, and bark at him.
Reviving blood, and that great men shall press
Wherein I sigh not, Julia, for thy sake,
brave Titus:
For private stomaching.
Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented
If you did know, my lord, my master's wants--
How now, friend Eros!
Give me my father!
churlish as the bear, slow as the elephant: a man
I'll never care what wickedness I do,
And send them thither: but at hand, at hand,
Even in the lukewarm blood of Henry's heart.
Say you?
Who only by misfortune of the seas
Is't come to this?
A dedicated beggar to the air,
Cursed be that heart that forced us to this shift!
horns, Master Brook: and, Master Brook, he hath
And with a sudden reinforcement struck
not forgot upon the face of the earth, then am I a
SCENE II. London. The palace.
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
Marry, at the white hair that Helen spied on Troilus' chin.
are in love too. Yet I profess curing it by counsel.
defect,--'Ladies,'--or 'Fair-ladies--I would wish
Ah, no, no, no, it is mine only son!
And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that
And little look'd for at your helping hands.
Till there be more matter in the shin.
you: I must discontinue your company: your brother
By faith and honour,
upon the table and says 'God send me no need of
le Grand, which holy undertaking with most austere
Re-enter PAGE
That you have slander'd so?
And Sir John Stanley is appointed now
My learn'd lord cardinal,
Exit a Servant
Misuse the tenor of thy kinsman's trust?
minstrels, draw, to pleasure us.
memory, nourished in the womb of pia mater, and
Should say myself offended, and with you
Than to be sure they do, for certainties
Our wagon is prepared, and time revives us:
I'll make all speed.
My lord?
Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here?
Scorn and derision never come in tears:
To give these mourning duties to your father:
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
Of Canterbury, accompanied with other
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
Your lady's person: is she ready?
The place is dignified by the doer's deed:
Storm still
Lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones
Being once gangrened, is not then respected
There's his period,
Some welcome for the mistress of the house.
They do me wrong, and I will not endure it:
That she this day hath shameless thrown on me.
Then is the world one.
The king's attorney on the contrary
The king he is hunting the deer, I am coursing
Her foes shake like a field of beaten corn,
No exorciser harm thee!
A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns,
I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur
And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I,
That will undo her: to confirm this too,
with interchange of gifts, letters, loving
neck i' the combat, he'll break 't himself in
Whose star-like nobleness gave life and influence
silks betray thy poor heart to woman: keep thy foot
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold,
A cistern for scaled snakes! Go, get thee hence:
To this extremity. Thy husband knew it all.
What offence, sweet Beatrice?
His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see,
Besides, the king's name is a tower of strength,
gives rare new liveries: if I serve not him, I
deceiving father of a deceitful son.
An angry arm against His minister.
But if all aim but this be levell'd false,
Re-enter BOULT
But curb it, spite of seeing. O, my lord,
into seeming knowledge, when we should submit
How! of me?
That, methinks, is strange.
To seek their fortunes farther than at home
That you might well enjoy her.
That have of late so huddled on his back,
of silver: there would this monster make a
By Him that raised me to this careful height
Exeunt SHALLOW and SIR HUGH EVANS
Exit
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper,
As I perceived his grace would fain have done,
Do as I bid you do.
Folded the writ up in form of the other,
Seeing his dead father
Play with your fancies, and in them behold
Suffolk, the new-made duke that rules the roast,
Does he rake this together! Now, my lords,
And 'twas time for him too, I'll warrant him that:
Be my last breathing in this mortal world!
Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,
why, it is a fairer name than French crown. I will
Bestow this place on us a little while.
God will revenge it, whom I will importune
Nay, it is ten times true, for truth is truth
To, to, to--
I mean our preservation, few in millions
They use to write it on the top of letters: 'twill
How can these things in me seem scorn to you,
Wherein we must have use of your advice:
My lord, the man I know.
ANTIPHOLUS
It should the good ship so have swallow'd and
But by thy help to this distressed queen?
voice so that I will roar you as gently as any
Our debts, our careful wives,
Pride, pomp and circumstance of glorious war!
Than are the tender horns of cockl'd snails,
met you at the prison, in the absence of the duke.
Be manly, and take comfort.
it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
'Alack, why does he so?'
sufferance. I see you are obsequious in your love,
Come, come, a hand from either:
Now is a time to storm, why art thou still?
Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a
Above the morning lark or wilt thou hunt?
more was this knight swearing by his honour, for he
Might in the ground be closed up in rest!
Had I thy youth and cause, I would not stay.
Friend,
The news, Rogero?
Enter SIMONIDES, THAISA, Lords, Attendants, and Knights, from tilting
thanks: but that I will have a recheat winded in my
Is ours already, and the man entire
Enter TITUS dressed like a Cook, LAVINIA veiled,  Young LUCIUS, and others. TITUS places the dishes on the table
I marvel Cambio comes not all this while.
I must be held a rancorous enemy.
Take heed, my lord, the welfare of us all
Shall bring Emilia forth.
Upon the maiden virtue of the crown.
Therefore by law thou art condemned to die.
withal, that either you might stay him from his
Shall never tremble: or be alive again,
Exeunt all but PETRUCHIO
My waned state for Henry's regal crown.
O sir, the loathsomeness of them offends me more
Kate, you and I cannot be confined within the weak
With what a sharp-provided wit he reasons!
Here 'tis, most reverend doctor, here it is.
For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
And know what 'tis to pity and be pitied,
For that which, if myself might be his judge,
Write till your ink be dry, and with your tears
Was this King Priam's joy?
But sun it is not, when you say it is not,
No, uncle, but our crosses on the way
Tell him the queen hath heartily consented
With her her niece, the Lady Blanch of Spain,
And profound Solomon to tune a jig,
Exit
Come, let us to the banquet.
And call him to long peace.
But I will rule both her, the king and realm.
It's fit this royal session do proceed,
And am right glad to catch this good occasion
transform me to a piece of cheese!
So that perforce you must needs stay a time.
and she's a great lubberly boy. If it had not been
Such shapes, such gesture and such sound, expressing,
With all my heart, sir.
over-lusty at legs, then he wears wooden
Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge,
Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
with the rusty curb of old father antic the law? Do
And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
Haply I see a friend will save my life
by a gentleman his companion.
For here he doth demand to have repaid
I am glad to see you well:
Remember our reward, when the deed is done.
What says his majesty?
Made him joint-servant with me, gave him way
That we have better men. But, hit or miss,
I'll have an Iris that shall find thee out.
Beat thou the drum, that it speak mournfully:
A' will make the man mad, to make a woman of him.
to herself: it is very true.
Forborne the getting of a lawful race,
Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge,
Through 'tis a saying, sir, not due to me.
contemplation are you in?
No, none that thou hast wit enough to make.
Could not all hell afford you such a devil?
To rouse a Grecian that is true in love:
Why
So shall she leave her blessedness to one,
With his unkindness? say't be so?
For, as I hear, he was much bound for you.
Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
Now, good Mistress Anne,--
I prithee, call me. Sleep hath seized me wholly
An unknown opposite, thou art not vanquish'd,
We coldly pause for thee, Chatillon, speak.
You bead, you acorn.
him. I do invite you to-morrow morning to my house
Fulvia!
I have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgement,
Have a command to tend you?
To give me audience: if the midnight bell
But, lords, in all our bloody massacre,
Doth teach me answers for deliverance!
Enter PERICLES with Attendants
Child of integrity, hath from my soul
the least a month, and he heartily prays some
No, by mine honour, but I was bid to come for you.
Against your sacred person, in God's name,
To send the old and miserable king
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
And for those wrongs, those bitter injuries,
Old fashions please me best, I am not so nice,
Though in this place most master wear no breeches,
Troilus had rather Troy were borne to Greece
Enter Nurse
He wears his honour in a box unseen,
could come to such honour!
I kiss'd it, and it gave me present hunger
Like man new made.
Exit REYNALDO
A priestly farewell to her: suddenly, woman.
Well, I am not fair, and therefore I pray the gods
[To MARINA]  Pray you, come hither awhile. You
To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now,
And therefore yet relent, and save my life.
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
Of a whole herd of lions.
To frustrate both his oath and what beside
Of all my buried ancestors are packed:
Cry 'God for Harry, England, and Saint George!'
news is old enough, yet it is every day's news. I
And though we lay these honours on this man,
Come, sir, along with us.
Discharge my followers: let them hence away,
Tush!
Accoutred as I was, I plunged in
put the moon in his pocket, we will pay him tribute
Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
And how like you this shepherd's life, Master Touchstone?
I might ask you for your commission, but I do take
You beg more than 'word,' then. Cox my passion!
Returning were as tedious as go o'er:
And all the brothers too: and yet I know not.
You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?
'Tis France, for England.
This ague fit of fear is over-blown,
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  Why, Enobarbus,
To know his pleasure, and in that behalf,
Will shake this island.
No.
Who was by good appliance recovered.
A ship you sent me to, to hire waftage.
To learn the order of my fingering,
That taught his son the office of a fowl!
Lady, a word: I'll bring you to your father.
But greater sin to keep a sinful oath.
wooing. But I protest to thee, pretty one, my
Fail not our feast.
Indifferent.
Henry now lives in Scotland at his ease,
To castigate thy pride, 'twere well: but thou
then kiss his foot, then deliver up your pigeons, and
Add an immortal title to your crown!
DEMETRIUS throws the body of BASSIANUS into the  pit, then exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, dragging off LAVINIA
For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind,
Thy beauty, that doth make me like thee well,
What I have spoke, or thou canst worse devise.
Enter MARK ANTONY and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
willingly, despise profit where you have most gain.
you have found him than he was when you sought him:
Pity not honour'd age for his white beard,
Of your great predecessor, King Edward the Third.
and thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.
And ask'd the mayor what meant this wilful silence:
I pull in resolution, and begin
so determinate as the removing of Cassio.
Adieu, sir.
To hopeless restitution, so he might
A drug of such damn'd nature. Those she has
By darkening my clear sun. My lord, farewell.
Fall'n in the practise of a damned slave,
Faith, Sir John,'tis more than time that I were
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
I am too high-born to be propertied,
to master Jew's?
are welcome to the house, if not, an it would please
I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
Whose tongue?
Boy!
Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
And bid them blow towards England's blessed shore,
Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison, rather
None, but your beauty: would that fault were mine!
True, sir, I was in love with my bed: I thank you,
To re-survey them, we will suddenly
[Reads]  ''Gamut' I am, the ground of all accord,
Of years, of country, credit, every thing,
In a wall'd prison, packs and sects of great ones,
Unless, by using means, I lame the foot
I spy life peering, but I dare not say
Cup us, till the world go round!
The benefit thereof is always granted
A very fine one: O, how he loves Caesar!
Since his majesty went into the field, I have seen
Did seem to say 'Seek not a scorpion's nest,
To what they were before. My pretty cousin,
O, ye're well met: the hoarded plague o' the gods
He bear himself with honourable action,
That's sorry yet for thee.
We will not from the helm to sit and weep,
This night he meaneth with a corded ladder
Bequeath thy land to him and follow me?
Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal: but
It stands under thee, indeed.
This shouldering of each other in the court,
Welcome, ye warlike Goths, welcome, Lucius,
as I was said to, Away!
That I did so when I was first assured.
As like Hermione as is her picture,
But your legs should do it.
What heart receives from hence the conquering part,
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Thou shalt not bail them: see thou follow me.
Two such controlling bounds shall you be, kings,
By treason, falsehood and by treachery,
But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?
He's within, sir, but not to be spoken withal.
Enjoys it, but in gross brain little wots
Exeunt
No, to their lives bad friends were contrary.
Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light.
That I have been your wife, in this obedience,
I fear me, lords, for all this flattering gloss,
And what hear there for welcome but my groans?
With folded arms. This poor right hand of mine
Did buy each other, must poorly sell ourselves
So, if a son that is by his father sent about
To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
Bears a command in't, though thy tackle's torn.
Tax of impudence,
That shapes this monstrous apparition.
He and Lepidus are at Caesar's house.
Now, what news on the Rialto?
I am content.
You made great Juno angry.
honest man, look you, and soon dashed. He is a
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace
How now! what news? why comest thou in such haste?
Farewell, old Gaunt: thy sometimes brother's wife
There's gold for thee.
Even to falling. Give him no breath, but now
If that thy gentry, Britain, go before
Now I know you better.
I know myself now, and I feel within me
That his chief followers lodge in towns about him,
Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue
Turk Gregory never did such deeds in arms as I have
christom child, a' parted even just between twelve
you too, for here comes one in haste.
Whether to knock against the gates of Rome,
The garden here is more convenient.
What concern they?
Half sleep, half waking: but as yet, I swear,
Even so our houses and ourselves and children
Besides--I ha' not since put up my sword--
If you speak truth, for their poor mistress' sake,
Who, with best meaning, have incurr'd the worst.
slew him. There is tears for his love, joy for his
And make your bondmen tremble. Must I budge?
To FERDINAND
Holloa me like a hare.
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
Ay, my good lord.
Courage and hope both teaching him the practise,
All faults that may be named, nay, that hell knows,
Did put the yoke upon 's, which to shake off
His eye-balls further out than when he lived,
your town, and things called whips?
Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
What lawful quest have given their verdict up
Of the same house Publius and Quintus were,
For nothing had begot my something grief,
Richard, thy wife, that wretched Anne thy wife,
Exit
The one almost as infinite as all,
In reason he should never come to heaven
I am her mother, sir, whose age and honour
Not one, my lord.
Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head,
Had he a hand to write this? a heart and brain
Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there
True honest men being heard, like false Aeneas,
Was once thought honest: you have loved him well.
Thou shalt not need. England, I will fall from thee.
That violates the smallest branch herein:
with the buttock of the night than with the forehead
And so tell your master.
Bring him with triumph home unto his house.
Yet, that the world may witness that my end
And so his peers, upon this evidence,
Flatter and praise, commend, extol their graces,
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
I speak no more than every one doth know.
Shall, by the power we hold, be our good deed,
To me, sir? why, you gave no gold to me.
are ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs: you
You shall hear more ere morning.
What would you with her, if that I be she?
Re-enter OTHELLO and Attendants
Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die:
the hardest voice of her behavior, to be Englished
standing-bed and truckle-bed, 'tis painted about
Live in your country here in banishment,
I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl,
Stand, ho! yet are we masters of the field:
What majesty is in her gait? Remember,
Enter APEMANTUS
door would speak with you: he says he comes from
Sirrah, you were best take my coxcomb.
the world, in the disciplines of the pristine wars
Observe how Antony becomes his flaw,
Which when he has a house, he'll deck withal
Isidore's Servant	There's the fool hangs on your back already.
Bassanio presently will go aboard:
By the mess, ere theise eyes of mine take themselves
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
Thou'lt torture me to leave unspoken that
None do you like but an effeminate prince,
Lord Angelo? they have confessed you did.
And drink carouses to the next day's fate,
Mist-like, infold me from the search of eyes.
I will with you, if you be so contented,
But you shall bear the burden soon at night.
Here is the number of the slaughter'd French.
This found I on my tent this morning.
is a region in Guiana, all gold and bounty. I will
I'll show the virtue I have borne in arms.
Augurs and understood relations have
That winter lion, who in rage forgets
Yield to his humour, smooth and speak him fair,
She is not bred so dull but she can learn,
Set down our host. My partner in this action,
If she refuse me: and from hence I go,
Thou wilt not hear me now, thou shalt not then:
I do serve you in this business.
He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valour
They talk aside
pretty barne! A boy or a child, I wonder? A
So. Begin.
stay behind her father, let her to the Greeks, and so
Nay, stay, Sir John, awhi le, and we'll debate
Others, like merchants, venture trade abroad,
Proclaim you are no less! Can you so stead me
He goes before me and still dares me on:
And that to the infection of my brains
Enter PAULINA, a Gentleman, and Attendants
Enter CAPULET
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
[Aside]  Clubs, clubs! these lovers will not keep
Exit
Exit
That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
Will well become such sweet-complaining grievance.
No, my lord.
forbearance till the spied of his rage goes
ay?
Exit Herald
I shall do't.
That's monstrous: O, that that were out!
You cannot derogate, my lord.
Come now, your one thing.
A letter, that she loves the knight of Tyre!
That both our powers, with smiling
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone,
Therefore the office is indifferent,
He merits well to have her, that doth seek her,
We see each grain of gravel, I do know
So looks the pent-up lion o'er the wretch
Thou art an exile, and thou must not stay:
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
COUNTESS
Kent, in the Commentaries Caesar writ,
Why, just, my lord, and that is Angelo,
My humour shall not cool: I will incense Page to
Embrace each other's love in banishment,
time, but also how thou art accompanied: for though
By the eternal God, whose name and power
Antonio, gratify this gentleman,
The conquest of our scarce cold conqueror,
[Aside]  Why, so this gallant will command the sun.
How to prevent the fiend, and to kill vermin.
And, live we how we can, yet die we must.
Know, I pray you,--
How far hence is thy lord, mine honest fellow?
You have forgot the will I told you of.
I warrant thee, if I do not act it, hiss me.
Yes, madam.
Our soldiers', like the night-owl's lazy flight,
As she from one ungot.
Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know
Were in six parts and every part a ducat,
Would Desdemona seriously incline:
Coriolanus will carry it.
at your command, I will run.
Disarm them, and let them question: let them keep
The entreaties of your mistress! satisfy!
Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends,
Let him be the devil, an he will, I care not: give
Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature
To him will we prove loyal: till that time
To-morrow truly will I meet with thee.
This morning for ten thousand of your throats
God bless your worship!
upon you, and, I pray you, your name?
it was excess of wine that set him on,
No, many a pound of mine own proper store,
But, I pray, sir why am I beaten?
Nor fetch in firing
Made suit to come in's presence, which if granted,
And make thee curse the harvest of that corn.
give him his desire. Back you shall not to the
Are there no stones in heaven
Hath pluck'd him after.
Full suddenly he fled.
Kind and dear princess!
She holds her virtue still and I my mind.
Ay, or I'll cudgel him, and make him cry O!
As air, as water, wind, or sandy earth,
The unity the king thy brother made
Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
Rising
Look that you take upon you as you should,
Command me.
carry't, he will carry't, 'tis in his buttons, he
Nor your son Dorset, Buckingham, nor you,
'had'! how sad a passage 'tis!--whose skill was
possible, with well-weighing sums of gold, to
out of the house: prithee, call my master to him.
afternoon?
I would not understand it.
For Imogen's dear life take mine, and though
comfort of your young prince Mamillius: it is a
no truth in your report. When was it she last walked?
Dishonour'd thus, and challenged of wrongs?
So shall I evermore be bound to thee,
If thou wilt curse, thy father, that poor rag,
As if he had been loosed out of hell
Even he, Biondello.
SCENE IV. The Queen's closet.
Exit SERVILIUS
I cannot nor I will not yield to you.
Is it therefore
Fortune speed us!
A cockatrice hast thou hatch'd to the world,
Against the envy of less happier lands,
The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
not an eagle's talon in the waist, I could have
'Tis time to give 'em physic, their diseases
Nor you, mistress,
Or if that thou couldst see me without eyes,
Princes and counties! Surely, a princely testimony,
Dat it is not be de fashion pour les ladies of
answering: speaking is for beggars, he wears his
Ay, God Almighty help me!
Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet?
To herald thee from the womb: even at the first
Let's see, I think 'tis now some seven o'clock,
discourse peremptory, his tongue filed, his eye
'We blush that thou shouldst choose, but, be refused,
And slaves they are to me that send them flying:
Spoke scantly of me: when perforce he could not
And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.
Marry, and it shall be done to-morrow morning, if I
Strike, you slave, stand, rogue, stand, you neat
Well I know the man.
opportunity.
Here comes his mother.
Shall I attend your grace?
We write in water. May it please your highness
To give me now a little benefit,
True as you said, Timon is shrunk indeed,
Now Jove afford you cause!
Only for them, and mine eternal jewel
Lest, being suffer'd in that harmful slumber,
An't please your grace, the two great cardinals
Took odds to combat a poor famish'd man.
Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
To OPHELIA
Out, some light horsemen, and peruse their wings.
Therefore no kiss.
I never saw the chain, so help me Heaven!
loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying
So take her to thee, shepherd: fare you well.
Why, there was a crown offered him: and being
I have, so much wit thou lackest.
Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought
Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?
of his country.
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see,
He shall espouse Elizabeth her daughter.
So his familiars to his buried fortunes
Even like the deed that's done. On Tuesday last,
Within six hours they will be at his aid.
I wish you all the joy that you can wish,
If she be curst, it is for policy,
To hear good counsel: O, what learning is!
If he fall in, good night! or sink or swim:
Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
Exit
To let a fellow that will take rewards
And dull unfeeling barren ignorance
Exit HORATIO
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
And snatch 'em up, as we take hares, behind:
A good mouth-filling oath, and leave 'in sooth,'
Why, Apemantus?
ransom him to any French courtier for a new-devised
Be henceforth treacherous! Damn'd Pisanio
That honourable grief lodged here which burns
Shall the contents discover, something rare
To him that victory commands? or do you purpose
Brutus will start a spirit as soon as Caesar.
Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless,
Antiochus from incest lived not free:
And, Nevil, this I do assure myself:
light, and convey what I will set down to my lady:
Royal queen!
the old play, that every one may pare his nails with
An excellent device! so, if any of the audience
You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it:
Upon this fairest prisoner.
He is afeard to come.
The bleeding witness of her hatred by,
Lay hands upon these traitors and their trash.
Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods,
The lists and full proportions, are all made
Thy token of reprieve.
DON
How tall was she?
Stabs him
I met the ravin lion when he roar'd
His speech, was like a tangled chain, nothing
O'erpays all I can do. By this, your king
working-days: your grace is too costly to wear
Is torn from forth that pretty hollow cage,
What, ho, the emperor's guard! The guard, what, ho!
Of all the favourites that the absent king
And thereof came it that the man was mad.
Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd,
That thou mayst be a queen, and cheque the world!
Come, trusty sword,
Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries,
To smother up his beauty from the world,
Will you be married, motley?
And we mean well in going to this mask,
Blow, and split thyself.
But if thou linger in my territories
Nothing of me, has a'?
Not like a formal man.
You have been nobly borne. From me awhile.
More bound to 's mother, yet here he lets me prate
Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this.
You, sirrah, provide your block and your axe
It is the emperor, madam.
O, sir, sir, sir,
Which was sometime his general, who loved him
How were they lost? what treachery was used?
I sometimes do believe, and sometimes do not,
So triumph thieves upon their conquer'd booty,
How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child,
lay with the little baggage.
If I keep them, I needs must lose myself,
The bound of honour, or in act or will
for I must let you understand I think myself in
Thou hast redeem'd thy lost opinion,
Shall I endure this monstrous villany?
Unwilling to outlive the good that did it,
By the mass, lad, thou sayest true, it is like we
Then saw you not his face?
Who's there, besides foul weather?
Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice
A gentleman.
To women of all fashion, lastly, hurried
I spy a black, suspicious, threatening cloud,
Stabs KING CLAUDIUS
Though great ones are their object. 'Tis even so,
So, sirs: now go some and pull down the Savoy,
flaming a praise for a good complexion. I had as
Corrupt the tender honour of a maid:
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
Let him come near.
It is a bawdy planet, that will strike
She hung about my neck, and kiss on kiss
Honest Iago, that look'st dead with grieving,
RICHARD
Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense,
Enter SUFFOLK in conference with KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER and EXETER
We will be satisfied, let us be satisfied.
Break we our watch up, and by my advice,
What of you?
He were an excellent man that were made just in the
And after slew herself.
Undraws the curtains
He bow'd his nature, never known before
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
Supposing that I lack'd it. But, on, Caesar,
My heart is not compact of flint nor steel,
In such a gorgeous palace!
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, but this answer will not serve.
Here.
[Aside]  Now Winchester will not submit, I trow,
I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall,
Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks,
To this great stage of fools: this a good block,
I doubt not but this populous city will
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
A spirit raised from depth of under-ground,
An elder than herself: so wears she to him,
Some men must love my lady and some Joan.
Thanks, noble Clarence, worthy brother, thanks.
Except I be by Silvia in the night,
Lift up your countenance, as it were the day
courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that
Of all these bounds, even from this line to this,
And then when poison'd hours had bound me up
He would have given it you, but I, being in the way,
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
Both take and give.
A man that more detests, more stirs against,
Induce you to the question on't? or ever
I'll come to you anon.
Rivers and Dorset, you were standers by,
[Aside]  What shall Cordelia do?
Who stays it still withal?
Is she not passing fair?
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
Every third thought shall be my grave.
footing than blind reason stumbling without fear: to
And that shall bail me, hie thee, slave, be gone!
Mad world! mad kings! mad composition!
You use her well: the world may laugh again,
[Coming forward]
say they are not the men you took them for.
Before you had worn it out.
Come hither, sirrah:
Pray you, stand further from me.
Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
One word in private with you, ere I die.
would once use our hearts, whereby we might express
Or we poor ghosts will cry
I owe him little duty, and less love,
Answer no more, for thou shalt be my queen.
Nothing.
How now, fair shepherd!
The bounteous housewife, nature, on each bush
So to esteem of us, and on our knees we beg,
I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips,
I scarce did know you, uncle: there lies your niece,
Pardon me, God, I knew not what I did!
Denounced against thee, are all fall'n upon thee,
As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea
Presently we'll try: come, let's away about it:
O, that I had her here, to tear her limb-meal!
How shalt thou hope for mercy, rendering none?
May be absolved in English.
And therefore is Love said to be a child,
We'll call thee at the cubiculo: go.
With hasty Germans and blunt Hollanders,
Had his necessity made use of me,
You are abused and by some putter-on
What begg'st thou, then? fond woman, let me go.
But, ere they live, to end.
Money by me! heart and goodwill you might,
Good sometime queen, prepare thee hence for France:
What would my lord, but that he may not have,
Shall have judicious hearing. Stand, Aufidius,
I do fear, too dreadful:
not too late now.
Do even drag me homeward: which to hinder
Even to a full disgrace. Best of my flesh,
And I nothing to back my suit at all,
For too much loving you.
That keep this dreadful pother o'er our heads,
apparent shame?
And Edward, my poor son, at Tewksbury.
And fearful to be granted.
So may you lose your arms:
How insolent of late he is become,
Go to, sirrah, tell the king from me, that, for his
And therefore are they very dangerous.
As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
I'll speak to thee in silence.
Until their greater pleasures first be known
yours: cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced with
I must be brief, lest resolution drop
He beckons with his hand and smiles on me.
Dies
Let us be worried and our nation lose
Exit
Against her will! good king, look to't in time,
Should say 'Be good to Rome,' they charged him even
As where's that palace whereinto foul things
And we fairies, that do run
So long a-growing and so leisurely,
I'll play the orator as well as Nestor,
These present wars against the Ottomites.
Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
Infusing him with self and vain conceit,
Or did the letters work upon his blood,
Bestow your love and your affections
As honest as I am.
Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
Off, pluck off:
Great, the parish curate, Alexander, Armado's page,
If I live to see it, I will never trust his word after.
pleased, let them come in, but quickly now.
You charge not in your spleen a noble person
Rather, lost more. And by this hand I swear,
In faith, for little England
Why, how now, Ajax! wherefore do you thus? How now,
Ha, you gods! why this? what this, you gods? Why, this
Here is the scroll of every man's name, which is
Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts,
lovers: seldom but that pity begets you a good
passion of wonder appeared in them, but the wisest
See what I do deliver out to each,
By this our book is drawn, we'll but seal,
Would fail her obligation: if, sir, perchance
And thus the native hue of resolution
A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,
You bade me ban, and will you bid me leave?
So perttaunt-like would I o'ersway his state
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing,
thing, I'll remember't anon:--even there, thou
I cannot draw a cart, nor eat dried oats,
Some villain, ay, and singular in his art.
And false.
With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep:
none of Pygmalion's images, newly made woman, to be
If I unwittingly, or in my rage,
More like an empress than Duke Humphrey's wife:
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
And ask of thee forgiveness: so we'll live,
is: and there's her thrummed hat and her muffler
The roofs of palaces, and nature prompts them
Since then my office hath so far prevail'd
Not in deed, madam, for I can do nothing
Into the danger of this adverse town,
[Within]  Your wife, sir knave! go get you from the door.
entreat you,--not to fear, not to tremble: my life
Sit, sir, I will recount it to you:
Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by you.
To bandy word for word and frown for frown,
Quick proceeders, marry! Now, tell me, I pray,
Our tradesmen with in their shops and going
Keep Stephen Langton, chosen archbishop
And then the moon, like to a silver bow
Is true and false, and what he with his oath
Alas, I had rather be set quick i' the earth
Is this the government of Britain's isle,
We will meet them,
As you owe to your wife.
And make this marriage to be solemnized.
Hark, hark!
Haply you shall not see me more, or if,
I have the toothache.
is a gallant child, one that indeed physics the
A better life. 'Tis paltry to be Caesar,
Of your chaste daughter the wide difference
Therefore be patient, take no note of him:
Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me,
Do not say so, Lysander, say not so
Still so constant, lord.
Maliciously like poison: but I cannot
Patience, good Katharina, and Baptista too.
Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread?
Exit
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, MECAENAS, SELEUCUS, and others of his Train
but that our wits are so diversely coloured: and
What says Maria?
And I will follow, more for Silvia's love
As a wren's eye, fear'd gods, a part of it!
Your roof were not sufficient to contain't.
With fearful bloody issue arbitrate.
want not, time and place will be fruitfully offered.
By violent swiftness, that which we run at,
I can no further crawl, no further go,
Thy name and honourable family,
Should straight fall mad, or else die suddenly.
To say there is no vice but beggary.
What observation madest thou in this case
To Bourdeaux, warlike duke! to Bourdeaux, York!
Exit GURNEY
Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead,
Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
Yea, my good lord.
Walks and whispers
Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
So well as soft and tender flattery.
Hostess, I forgive thee: go, make ready breakfast,
With that, they all did tumble on the ground,
His power unto Octavia.
think, being too strong for him, though he took
Fight for your king, your country and your lives,
With any scruple, your scope is as mine own
There was no thought of pleasing you when she was
hath not drunk ink: his intellect is not
Hanged! by'r lady, then I have brought up a neck to
Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.
From the spongy south to this part of the west,
To bear the matter thus, mere weakness. If
The second, William of Hatfield, and the third,
Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes,
I will not.
The noblest ta'en.
Octavius, then take him to follow thee,
A long time out of play, may bring his plainsong
Exeunt
Than to perform it first.
To me, my father?
Goes into the pulpit
Nay, but hear me.
How say you sir? Can you deny all this?
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
He went hence even now.
The king is merciful, if you revolt.
Or to be naked with her friend in bed
He sent in writing after me, what he would not,
ACT I
Did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye,
Within the eye of honour, be assured,
Met us again and madly bent on us,
Enter Ambassadors of France
Be factious for redress of all these griefs,
Appear like mice, and yond tall anchoring bark,
With golden promises, that, were his heart
Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow.
Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest
As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine--
performance is ever the duller for his act, and,
And, though I kill him not, I am the cause
Re-enter Officers with ISABELLA, and Provost with the DUKE VINCENTIO in his friar's habit
And no way from yourselves. What do you think,
Is this the Lady Cressid?
Choose out some secret place, some reverend room,
My soul consents not to give sovereignty.
they would else have married me to the rotten medlar.
You are mistaken: the one may be sold, or given, if
Who neigh'd so high, that what I would have spoke
I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear,
And yet I know not how conceit may rob
Proceed, Moon.
Why such unplausive eyes are bent on him:
In piteous chase, and thus the hairy fool
And charge us there upon inter'gatories,
And from the common'st creature pluck a glove,
So horrid as in woman.
SCENE VII. Field of battle between the camps.
To fill the world with vicious qualities.
with you. Your father and my uncle hath made
Apollo, perfect me in the characters!
To lend me arms and aid when I required them,
Walter,--
A pound of that same merchant's flesh is thine:
I bear a charmed life, which must not yield,
Thou lovest me not, for, brother, if thou didst,
on 't, Jove, a foul fault! When gods have hot
Upon the country where you make abode,
And yet, good faith, I wish'd myself a man,
Can hold it up: here I and sorrows sit,
To give me secret harbour, hath a purpose
He shall live a man forbid:
feed on the air, I am one that am nourished by my
Aloud
I come to him.
Succeeds in unknown fate.
This is most likely!
Edward the Black Prince died before his father
so he then took her to be, who began to be much
And yet his punishment was cruel death.
Shall win my love: and so I take my leave,
I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
The armourer of my heart: false, false, this, this.
should have play for lack of work. Would, for the
To see her in your arms.
Lady, of that I have made a bold charter, but I
Near Birnam wood
the poor. If the wars eat us not up, they will, and
Madding my eagerness with her restraint,
The times that brought them in, so shall I do
Here in this country, where we now remain.
You have in manner with your sinful hours
My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours:
He spieth FALSTAFF on the ground
And not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks,
I see that nose of yours, but not that dog I shall
A worthy officer i' the war, but insolent,
By day and night he wrongs me, every hour
Farewell, good Charles.
Why dost thou cry 'alas'?
to old shoes, when they are in great danger, I
strumpet in my bed, the testimonies whereof lie
Good.
I do not bear these crossings. Give me leave
Prithee, say.
That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool,
O Seigneur Dieu!
The more shame for him that he sends it me,
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
And then I'll presently attend you.
Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet,
Of burning youth.
Is a strange brooch in this all-hating world.
Will cheer me ever, or disseat me now.
First, forward to the temple: after dinner
Then thus she says, your behavior hath struck her
What likelihood of his amendment, lords?
well: a man may draw his heart out, ere a' pluck
Like or find fault, do as your pleasures are:
man denies, you are now bound to believe him.
Thy very stones prate of my whereabout,
Must he needs die?
The story of your loves discovered:
The bird that hath been limed in a bush,
Which time will bring to light in smooth
Trumpet within
A' has a little gall'd me, I confess,
For thy three thousand ducats here is six.
Once more let me behold it: is it that
To enter publicly: him I'll desire
The town is ta'en!
Blest, and mine own!
All which secure and sweetly he enjoys,
The tyranny of the open night's too rough
I shall, my lord.
throwing him into the water will do him a benefit.
And all the rest revolted faction traitors?
His father never was so true begot:
The tribune and his nephews kneel for grace,
Feeds in the bosom of such great commanders,
Then let my father's blood open it again:
'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
And when I have the bloody Hector found,
Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts
corporal, be patient here. How now, mine host Pistol!
That sits in heart-grief and uneasiness
And he from forage will incline to play:
As he to me: would he have stolen away
That doit that e'er I wrested from the king,
sceptre for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich
I prithee, noble friend, home to thy house,
Behold, behold. where Madam Mitigation comes! I
Madam, so I did.
[Reads]  'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it,
All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
I think the devil will not have me damned, lest the
Against my will to do myself this wrong.
Enough.
I think it be.
Find them out whose names are written here! It is
To the sea-monster: I stand for sacrifice
To make amends, Ill give it to your daughter.
That basely fled when noble Talbot stood.
For lying so, Hermia, I do not lie.
She's a gallant lady.
Come, high or low,
Let me deserve so ill as you, and make me
I'd set my ten commandments in your face.
Spread further.
From heartiness, from bounty, fertile bosom,
Between the acres of the rye,
his service
DON
To make cold nymphs chaste crowns, and thy broom -groves,
In peace was never gentle lamb more mild,
You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.
Will it not be?
To BRUTUS
With certain half-caps and cold-moving nods
Incline to it, or no?
Despiteful tidings! O unpleasing news!
Good my liege, I come,
How does he love me?
Thy half o' the kingdom hast thou not forgot,
Yes, just.
With cheese and garlic in a windmill, far,
To grace in captive bonds his chariot-wheels?
Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
In opposition bloody. I cannot speak
A dreadful oath, sworn with a solemn tongue!
Fresh as a bridegroom, and his chin new reap'd
We'll sure provide: thou shalt have my best gown to
To her unhappy brother Claudio?
'Tis not a mile, briefly we heard their drums:
Of benefit proceeding from our king
He's one honest enough: would all the rest were so!
'And wished to see thee cross-gartered.'
His little kingdom of a forced grave.
SCENE I. Mantua. A street.
The prince your son, with mere conceit and fear
What, shall I groan and tell thee?
One, her hairs were gold, crystal the other's eyes:
One of them is well known, my gracious lord,
And time is at his period.
The chain were longer and the letter short?
Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear
Succeeding his father Bolingbroke, did reign,
Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
If thou wert sensible of courtesy,
So farewell to the little good you bear me.
Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine:
I bade you never speak again of him:
And over-shine the earth as this the world.
shalt be!' This have I thought good to deliver
Ye are too bold:
Near to the walls, by some apparent sign
Say, how is that?
Let one attend him with a silver basin
Who steals my purse steals trash, 'tis something, nothing,
Exit TAMORA
SCENE IV. A room in FORD'S house.
But this denoted a foregone conclusion:
Jack hath not Jill: these ladies' courtesy
Henry hath money, you are strong and manly,
Thou art a Castalion-King-Urinal. Hector of Greece, my boy!
is dat knave Rugby?
Exit
Being no further enemy to you
Than in possession and jot of pleasure.
That ever eye with sight made heart lament!
How shall she be endow'd,
He had need mean better than his outward show
That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
The mind shall banquet, though the body pine:
thy quiddities? what a plague have I to do with a
He goes away in a cloud: call him, call him.
By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face:
So come to you and yours, as to this Prince!
O, stand up blest!
To wage an instant trial with the king.
Christian example? Why, revenge. The villany you
terms, as I may: and that's the humour of it.
Good Bardolph, put thy face between his sheets, and
By which he should revive: and even so
Till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness,
You having lands, and blest with beauteous wives,
Here, take away this dish.
They tend the crown, yet still with me they stay.
Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me,--
look your grace, has struck the glove which your
Veni, vidi, vici, which to annothanize in the
I made these wars for Egypt: and the queen,--
It shall make honour for you.
Fairly spoke.
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary,
What cannot be, slight work.
And did avoid a puttock.
I'll board him presently.
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st
Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.
An actor too, perhaps, if I see cause.
At all times alike
Thunder still
I loved her most, and thought to set my rest
body as when he numbered thirty: he will be here
He loves your wife, there's the short and the long.
Why should excuse be born or e'er begot?
When we would bring him on to some confession
And am I thus rewarded? 'tis not well, lords.
The king by me requests your presence straight.
So fun of valour that they smote the air
Be patient, York: if we conclude a peace,
There I couch when owls do cry.
There.
your people,
With bur-docks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo-flowers,
And with dishonour laid me on the ground,
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
And then, I grant, we put a sting in him,
Or more than any living man could bear.
[Aside to NESTOR]  And how his silence drinks up
Did you too much disquiet: for that you must
By Jove, I wonder, that is king of thoughts,
His death was so effected: better 'twere
When Goths were Goths and Tamora was queen--
An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man
writ, and can never find what names the writing
Even on the instant.
My soul upon the forfeit, that your lord
Then I am yours.
Enter CORIOLANUS, marching with drum and colours, commoners being with him
For sluttish spoils of opportunity
I took no more pains for those thanks than you take
To the old dam, treason,--Charles the emperor,
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
And, to relief of lazars and weak age,
That holy duty, out of dear respect,
I must confess to you, sir, I am no fighter: I am
I lay up thy lips.
You all consented unto Salisbury's death,
Shone down the English, and, to-morrow, they
The freckled cowslip, burnet and green clover,
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
Good.
The next is this, King John hath reconciled
but I thought there was more in him than I could think.
You speak it out of fear and cold heart.
What shall we do, Enobarbus?
Except a sword or sceptre balance it:
Or stand so mammering on. What! Michael Cassio,
Enter OTHELLO and Attendants
That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham,
O, beware, my lord, of jealousy,
peace and plenty.'
Sings
vinegar and pepper in't.
Come hither, Mariana.
give her two.
husband, come home presently.
A queen in jest, only to fill the scene.
had now, for putting the hand in the pocket and
'Tis gone!
If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
I'll send some packing that yet think not on it.
So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons,
Were you in my stead, would you have heard
Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men,
And reason coldly of your grievances,
Than by self-offences weighing.
And useth it to patronage his theft.
Though so denied fair harbour in my house.
You will! why, happy man be's dole! My brother,
Laugh'd in his face, and when with grief he wept,
Within their innocent alabaster arms:
Enter BRUTUS
Enter'd my house. Antonio, you are welcome,
Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
Exeunt all the Commoners
To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage,
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Admits no orifex for a point as subtle
devil my master knew she was Margaret, and partly
And you of her, the bloody book of law
If these be they, I know not how to wish
Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies
Something, and scarce so much: nothing, indeed.
And who is your deer?
Their loud applause and Aves vehement,
Deceive me not now, Navarre is infected.
A pebble.
Stays in his course and plays the alchemist,
Which to preserve is sleep, which being spotted
prayers, for, look you, the warrant's come.
Exeunt severally
Longer, longer.
Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.
And speak off half a dozen dangerous words,
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
To choke it in the utterance. So our virtues
you: let the justices make you and fortune friends:
You'ld be king o' the isle, sirrah?
The Dauphin crowned king! all fly to him!
My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!
Go to, then, your considerate stone.
Of any bold or noble enterprise,
None that beheld him, but, like lesser lights,
Is not nine.
therefore your grace may well say I have lost it.
A strange beginning: 'borrow'd majesty!'
With Angelo to-night shall lie
Is left to tyrannize upon my breast,
How much we do o'er-count thee.
It bears an angry tenor: pardon me:
To have them in safe stowage: may it please you
Which Caesar and his fortune bare at once.
How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio?
But 'tis not so.
With what, i' the name of God?
Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?
How do you, madam? how do you, my good lady?
Sweet, above thought I love thee.
Dispute it like a man.
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE
His grace not being warn'd thereof before:
write with a goose-pen, no matter: about it.
Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to
Of human dealings. If I do prove her haggard,
That so his sickness, age and impotence
Three thousand confident, in act as many--
Be sent for, to return from France with speed,
It doth appear you are a worthy judge,
He was drunk then, my lord: it can be no better.
If thou art dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
make shift to go without him.
Have blown me full of maggot ostentation:
Your eyes do make no coaches, in your tears
feelingly now?
The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
Thou blow'st for Hector.
This paper is the history of my knowledge
Exit
Hath sometime loved! I take thy hand, this hand,
Than wots the miller of, and easy it is
[Reads]  'Wonder not, nor admire not in thy mind,
thank my good father, I am able to maintain it.
Heaven keep your honour safe!
But if you have a stomach, to't i' God's name:
understand what you mean by bidding me taste my legs.
You have said you will not grant us any thing,
Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too,
Faith, I'll home to-morrow, Sir Toby: your niece
When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind
The by-gone day proclaim'd: say this to him,
But leave it all to God. whither away?
When I like your favour, for God defend the lute
Yea, brought her hither,
And let my liver rather heat with wine
A pantler, not so eminent.
That always favour'd him.
Sir?
We are hither come to offer you our service.
Exit
So good a quarrel and so bad a peer.
Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor
My mild entreaty shall not make you guilty.
And turn them out of service. If they do this,--
But thou, 'gainst all proportion, didst bring in
Ho! now you strike like the blind man: 'twas the
Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
for your love, I would be loath to foil him, as I
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand,
But hast thou done thy errand to Baptista?
An if thou wilt not tell me all things true.
bencher in the Capitol.
To parley or to fight, therefore prepare.
So you do condescend to help me now.
Amen: I thank thee.
Give him the ring, and bring him, if thou canst,
He that of greatest works is finisher
Videsne quis venit?
Exit THURIO
May you stead me? will you pleasure me? shall I
Exeunt GARDINER and Page
Ah, this thou shouldst have done,
To lean upon: but it would warm his spirits,
Issue to me, that the contending kingdoms
Why, they will allow us ne'er a jordan, and then we
Yet tell her of it: hear what she will say.
Hang it!
While that the armed hand doth fight abroad,
Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
For I have lost us him on a dangerous sea.
With surety stronger than Achilles' arm
Upon his party: he, mistrusting them,
He did, my lord, four days ere I set forth,
In praising Antony, I have dispraised Caesar.
Do not rise yet.
Of what complexion?
No tongue! all eyes! be silent.
To wear a heart so white.
The other to enjoy by rage and war:
To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
And, like as there were husbandry in war,
Then let them anatomize Regan, see what breeds
Save that, for reverence to some alive,
O, forgive me my sins!
And of his friends there, it is lots to blanks,
conquering might:
God bless the king!
comedy: my cue is villanous melancholy, with a
So may you by my dull and heavy eye,
O, quick, or I am gone.
A thousand pieces.
So the revenge alone pursued me! Polydore,
And not impute this yielding to light love,
credit sake, make all whole. I am joined with no
O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout!
Do we not likewise see our learning there?
Fare ye well:
For, O, love's bow
If you had known the virtue of the ring,
Which was as gross as ever touch'd conjecture,
For them all together, which maintained so politic
Not in the power on't: so our leader's led,
Guard her till Caesar come.
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
But yesterday the word of Caesar might
Which is the wiser here? Justice or Iniquity? Is
And, sure, those men are happy that shall have 'em.
If it please you to dine with us.
Captain, I will.
Tell me, may not a king adopt an heir?
see the man, that has but two legs, that shall find
THE SONG.
At last by notes of household harmony
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
And, pretty fool, it stinted and said 'Ay.'
Thy match was mortal to him, and pure grief
Which forced marriage would have brought upon her.
It was, as I have seen it in his life,
man.
Stay a little while.
Yet ask.
Welcome, AEmilius	what's the news from Rome?
If my observation, which very seldom lies,
Put in her tender heart the aspiring flame
That pitiful rumour may report my flight,
And made a prey for carrion kites and crows
you?
Where is my prince, the Dauphin?
acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you, sir?
I say you shall.
Enter GOWER
Tune a deploring dump: the night's dead silence
knowledge and accordingly valiant.
For the letter that begins them all, H.
solidares for thee: good boy, wink at me, and say
Is wander'd forth, in care to seek me out
Sorry am I his numbers are so few,
More whore, more mischief first, I have given you earnest.
That this same very day your enemies,
If that my cousin king be King of England,
sold many laces.
Enjoy the kingdom after my decease.
And I will see thee.
Unless you play the pious innocent,
Suffolk, arise. Welcome, Queen Margaret:
For every false drop in her bawdy veins
Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour,
there, ho!
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl,
Exit
Are you sure of that?
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
Here comes the fool, i' faith.
With vilest torture let my life be ended.
Thou liest.
What they are, yet I know not: but they shall be
Count Claudio, whom you sent me to seek.
My good and gracious Lord of Canterbury.
No, if a Scot would save his soul, he shall not:
Enter the Ghost of CAESAR
Clerk-like experienced, which no less adorns
Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
Exeunt
She strokes his cheek!
I am a right maid for my cowardice:
And that engenders thunder in his breast
O, above measure false!
On his shoulder, and his, her face o' fire
Pedascule, I'll watch you better yet.
Sing willow, willow, willow:
Who, I? no, I defy thee: God's light, I was never
If you go forward, therefore yield, or die.
And said, 'Dear brother, live, and be a king'?
For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
Alarum. Drums and trumpets. Enter AGRIPPA and others
And curse that justice did it.
aboard, tender your persons to his presence,
are betray'd
We do not know.
Away, and let me die.
Clear up, fair queen, that cloudy countenance:
Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace
And worthily, my falsehood! yea, as much
Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
You stand within his danger, do you not?
Thou speak'st it well. Go, father, with thy son.
But age, with his stealing steps,
Let him make treble satisfaction.
The world is not thy friend nor the world's law,
Think of me as you please. I leave my duty a little
What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha?
To follow with allegiance a fall'n lord
Less impudence to gainsay what they did
But with a noble fury and fair spirit,
farthings--remuneration.--'What's the price of this
Warwick, my son, the comfort of my age,
To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
From the still-vex'd Bermoothes, there she's hid:
Enter GLOUCESTER, solus
Thy life answer!
As great in admiration as herself,
First, provost, let me bail these gentle three.
SCENE IV. Rome. Philario's house.
to you, to set her before your eyes tomorrow human
After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
And watery death-bed for him. He may win,
For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
To sound the purpose of all their hearts,
O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
For now he lives in fame, though not in life.
I'll wear a boot, to make it somewhat rounder.
And of women.
Exeunt
Where be the bending peers that flatter'd thee?
Shall shine at full upon them. Some attend him.
I tell thee,
I am vanquished, these haughty words of hers
There's some ill planet reigns:
Alas, I am not coop'd here for defence!
That I may pass this doing.
Saint Denis to Saint Cupid! What are they
Anne Bullen! No, I'll no Anne Bullens for him:
Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's
My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
my way: but I would it were morning, for I would
And curbs himself even of his natural scope
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
I, sir? I never saw her till this time.
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
Ay, very well, my lord.
truth enough alive to make societies secure, but
In Rome, as well as I	mechanic slaves
Calling him 'Humphrey, the good Duke of
In my profession? Knighthoods and honours, borne
And rather like a dream than an assurance
Were fit for thee to use as they to claim,
prayers are he may, let me desire you to make your
Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,
His May of youth and bloom of lustihood.
I learn, you take things ill which are not so,
Reads
So thou refuse to drink my dear sons' blood.
Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong,
Older in practise, abler than yourself
Where you may have such vantage on the duke,
Upon what ground is his distemperature?
wilt not promise, the gods plague thee, for thou art
Sit with my cousin, lend him your kind pains
That your poor friends must woo your company?
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
Nursing of my sons!
O God! if my deep prayers cannot appease thee,
composition with the King of Hungary, why then all
swallowed one another: I would laugh at that
I pray you, school yourself: but for your husband,
When the moon shone, we did not see the candle.
How long hath she been thus?
Now while I speak this, holds his wife by the arm,
My daughter is not for thee, and now, in madness,
I have ta'en a due and wary note upon't:
And you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in
Writes me: 'That man, how dearly ever parted,
That face of his I do remember well,
'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey.
hath, at a word, he hath, believe me: Robert
I will do this, if I can bring it to any
Adieu, good master doctor.
If you advise it.
justle a constable. Why, thou deboshed fish thou,
An't like your lordly lord-protectorship.
Re-enter a Servant, with boxes, napkins, and fire
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
While I was there.
It is an old coat.
Stand, ho!
Come hither, Bess, and let me kiss my boy.
Long live the king!
Exit Lord
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
'What my great-grandfather and his grandsire got
her: that if she love me, I charge her to love
In seeming to augment it wastes it? Be advised:
Exeunt FERDINAND and MIRANDA severally
Briefly thyself remember: the sword is out
Thus proudly pight upon our Phrygian plains,
call you the town's name where Alexander the Pig was born!
Upon thy feature, for my rage was blind,
I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,
The whitest virtue strikes. What king so strong
Lead on to some foul issue: we all kneel.
All must be even in our government.
What dost thou mean by shaking of thy head?
O ye immortal gods!
To more approved service and desert.
She's, like a liar, gone to burning hell:
All her perfections challenge sovereignty:
to herself her own words to her own ears, she
A maiden battle, then? O, I perceive you.
A piece of him.
And show no sign of fear.
Who, having no external thing to lose
Why, sir, she's a good creature. Lord Lord! your
anew: but I must attend his majesty's command, to
And had as ample power as I have will,
'His garment!'
For I will throw my glove to Death himself,
Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
Ay, when? can'st tell? Lend me thy lantern, quoth
Warwick, what are thy news? and yours, fair queen?
Yet it shall come from me to do thee good.
Fear frames disorder, and disorder wounds
which there were no expectation of our prosperity.
A proper stripling and an amorous!
Here will I rest me till the break of day.
Come, come, I'll go burn some sack, 'tis too late
To gentle exercise and proof of arms.
Nor I your mother?
new-ta'en sparrow.
Base dunghill villain and mechanical,
Or Night kept chain'd below.
I'll never see 't, for, I am sure, my nails
I' the body of the weal, and now, arriving
stray, for entering his fee-simple without leave.
Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day?
Let them approach.
For, in my sense, 'tis happiness to die.
And seek to effect it to my uttermost.
In like manner was I in debt to my importunate
the old Robin Hood of England: they say many young
Of dear import, and the neglecting it
And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful
He wishes earnestly you never may.
O misery on't!--the wise gods seel our eyes,
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
Did move your greatness and this noble state
He's not yet through warm: force him with praises:
Speak of Mortimer!
May not be punish'd with my thwarting stars,
Fool!
What say'st thou, boy? look in the lady's face.
Minion, thou liest. Is't not Hortensio?
In our long absence: pray, do not deliver
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes.
For sauciness. I pray you, let us hence,
Than my fortunes to me.
mopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaids
Most fortunately: he hath achieved a maid
Sauf votre honneur, le Francois que vous parlez, il
Though, haply, well for you.
Albeit I will confess thy father's wealth
Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance
sick, or angry?
Or pricket sore, or else sorel, the people fall a-hooting.
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
Yet herein will I imitate the sun,
The enfranchisement of Arthur, whose restraint
I say thou hast belied mine innocent child,
I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown,
He had two sons: if this be worth your hearing,
fortune! here comes the man: to him, father, for I
My noble Lord of Suffolk, or for that
Nor none so bad, but it may well be told.
My royal fox could reach them: I have seen a medicine
What would you have? Your gentleness shall force
I took an oath that he should quietly reign.
To sheathe his knife in us. He is attach'd,
What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
Of England's chair, where he is falsely set,
Since first I saw yourself and Diomed
When every feather sticks in his own wing,
Thou'dst shiver'd like an egg: but thou dost breathe,
Pray you, my lord, give me leave to question, you
To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasures,
Why, 'tis good, it is the right of it, it must be
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
Unswear faith sworn, and on the marriage-bed
Seeing you coming.
Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame.
With fatal mouths gaping on girded Harfleur.
Come hither, knight, come hither, Fabian: we'll
Thump then and I flee.
Even to roaring.
Lavinia, live, outlive thy father's days,
Even as I have of fertile England's soil.
A fall off of a tree.
Re-enter CASSIO
That on the unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes,
Exit
him.
If I cannot recover your niece, I am a foul way out.
SCENE IV. A hall in Black-Friars.
All men's!
and the garland too, for the garland he might have
That since the common men are now in action
When I return with victory from the field
A join'd-stool.
crow-keeper: draw me a clothier's yard. Look,
Shed for my thankless country are requited
Dear sir, of force I must attempt you further:
Exeunt
Enter FERDINAND king of Navarre, BIRON, LONGAVILLE and DUMAIN
And yet no further than a wanton's bird,
Ay, I praise God, and I have merited some love at
And go well satisfied to France again.
And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to
is Dromio.
I do believe the swearer. What with me?
With the best blood that I can meet withal
If 'gainst yourself you be incensed, we'll put you,
Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
[Aside to SUFFOLK]
Exeunt
Cry  'Havoc,' and let slip the dogs of war,
Nay, good my lord, put him to't, let him have his
And the free maids that weave their thread with bones
For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast,
And turn his merry note
Pick'd from the chaff and ruin of the times
She that would alter services with thee,
to thy flatterers?
And sing them loud even in the dead of night,
Between the realms of England and of France.
And at our more consider'd time well read,
Alack, the king!
Women will love her, that she is a woman
Indeed the top of admiration! worth
Ay, now am I in Arden, the more fool I, when I was
Enter QUEEN MARGARET, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, PRINCE EDWARD, and Soldiers
Is this done?
Yes, when he is in, but I think he is not in.
As dim and meagre as an ague's fit,
That I will show you shining at this feast,
Alack, sir, no, her passions are made of nothing but
You great fellow,
small reflection of her wit.
ink-horn about his neck.
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes,
May make against the house of Lancaster.
Is cramm'd with arrogancy, spleen, and pride.
Stay, then, I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me:
Forbid the smiling courtesy of love
You are too cold, if you should need a pin,
for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling.
Vie feathers white. Marina gets
But he and his shall know that justice lives
people dislike it.
Construe them.
looks pale, as if a bear were at his heels.
As you have done my truth. If he know
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale,
And skilless as unpractised infancy.
My lord, the enemy is past the marsh
She will not quench and let instructions enter
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
That honourable day shall ne'er be seen.
But, O, it presses to my memory,
Peace, you mumbling fool!
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
Enter COSTARD
that
Ay, and good next day too.
Caesar fell down. If the tag-rag people did not
That may with foul intrusion enter in
How doth the prince, and my young son of York?
And Shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was
This flower's force in stirring love.
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
great reckoning in a little room. Truly, I would
The even mead, that erst brought sweetly forth
Why, am I dead? do I not breathe a man?
My purpose was for Tarsus, there to strike
For one his like, there would be something failing
My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
Hark! I hear their drum.
disposer is sick.
But in despair die under their black weight.
My best-esteem'd acquaintance: hie thee, go.
stock, and freshly grow, then shall Posthumus end
Enter the Page as a lady, with attendants
Sir Nathaniel, will you hear an extemporal epitaph
For me,
When Biondello comes, he waits on thee,
Honest, my lord!
That hath not noble lustre in your eyes.
Exit
To the mines! tell you the duke, it is not so good
the painted cloth for this: your lion, that holds
wont, when you laughed, to crow like a cock, when you
To say 'Beseech you, cease.' You have made fair hands,
Come, enter with us. Ladies, you deserve
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
From her shall read the perfect ways of honour,
To see him pass on to the Capitol.
I do, my lord, and mean accordingly.
Grace and remembrance be to you both,
Lo, by thy side where Rape and Murder stands,
Away, away, mad ass! his name is Lucentio and he is
O, no, no, no.
To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
And such a one do I profess myself. For, sir,
Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar,
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
Whom he reports to be a great magician,
Right, I mean you.
Into your guiding power. This is the man.
Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
Doth that bode weeping?
I love you the better: the hearers may cry, Amen.
Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
Exit
Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors,
Enter CORIN
Grandam, I will not wish thy fortunes thrive:
Plantagenet doth quit Plantagenet.
Exeunt
of gold for thee: if the gentlewoman that attends
So do each lord, and either greet him not,
Else Paris and the medicine and the king
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Takes off my manhood: I have belied a lady,
The breath no sooner left his father's body,
Of many worthy fellows that were out,
And I have been all this day to avoid him. He is
Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
Which reformation must be sudden too,
take Antenor! the young prince will go mad: a
God keep all vows unbroke that swear to thee!
Replying shrilly to the well-tuned horns,
'Tis all my business. At our last encounter,
have no more of this, let's to our affairs.--Forgive
I believe thee, for I think thou never wast where
And I would call it, fair play.
Fly, fly, my lord, there is no tarrying here.
These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil,
They crave to be demanded. Who is this
We shall not marry till thou bid'st us.
And say 'Will't please your lordship cool your hands?'
Ah, uncle Humphrey! in thy face I see
And marry sweet Bianca with consent.
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night,
O Antony, beg not your death of us.
Rejoiced deliverance more. Blest pray you be,
Re-enter HORATIO, with OPHELIA
I have with such provision in mine art
Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
in France, Before--
there be hacks!
[Advancing]  Come, sir, you blush, as his your case is such,
Exeunt all but PISANIO
Have you yourselves, Somerset, Buckingham,
And creep into it far before thy time?
SCENE IV. The same. A street.
CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, are driven out
Are of imagination all compact:
To her I go, a jolly thriving wooer.
As many devils entertain, and 'To her, boy,' say I.
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
I know you are more clement than vile men,
To call them woollen vassals, things created
True nobility is exempt from fear:
[Reads]  'Thou killest me like a rogue and a villain.'
The bell then beating one,--
Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit-trees,
Put out the light, and then put out the light:
The lamentable change is from the best,
Ba, pueritia, with a horn added.
Exit
Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and spring.
Exit
To execute upon him. Sir, this gentleman
to undo us. Will you not go the way of women-kind?
From top of honour to disgrace's feet?
bridegroom wants
And he to England shall along with you:
To think o' the teen that I have turn'd you to,
What's that?
'twill serve.
tragedians, to belie him, I will not, and more of
By being so verbal: and learn now, for all,
But to prove to you that Helen loves him: she came
Had I been there, which am a silly woman,
Strike, drum.
With half that face would he have all my land:
Seeing too much sadness hath congeal'd your blood,
Die, damned wretch, the curse of her that bare thee,
Or I shall so be-mete thee with thy yard
Were liken'd oft to kingly sepulchres,
Well, for two of them, I know them to be as
Met we on hill, in dale, forest or mead,
The earth hath bubbles, as the water has,
Stood Dido with a willow in her hand
Besides, I will be sworn these ears of mine
and liking, proud, fantastical, apish, shallow,
He cannot be such a monster--
'Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,
Which should be thine or his: silenced with that,
But, mighty lord, this merry inclination
O, handle not the theme, to talk of hands,
In both my eyes he doubly sees himself,
The quaint musician, amorous Licio,
Your differences shall all rest under gage
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh,
Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes and groves,
Sweet lords, sweet lovers, O, let us embrace!
I prithee, do not hold me to mine oath,
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon, his
'Tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag.
ACT IV
Having no other reason
Nor any of his false confederates.
Whate'er you think, good words, I think, were best.
Flat burglary as ever was committed.
Exeunt Oxford and Somerset, guarded
Re-enter Lords, with EXETER and train
ANTIPHOLUS
And, princely peers, a happy time of day!
As true hearts cannot bear.
But, better look'd into, he truly found
Conceal me what I am, and be my aid
The witch in Smithfield shall be burn'd to ashes,
Your enemies and his find something in him.
To prove myself a loyal gentleman
That shows the ignorant a kind of fear
Who shall say me nay?
rescue in the first assault or ransom afterward.
My spirit from mine eyes! There is my dagger,
Before my God, I might not this believe
Trust me, he beat him most pitifully.
I should not make so dear a show of zeal:
rest so laughed, that it passed.
Every way makes my gain: live Roderigo,
Things done, undone: but, if he be at hand,
As you are great, be pitifully good:
and fathers declining, the father should be as
Caesar hath sent--
In yonder tower, to overpeer the city,
You can play no part but Pyramus, for Pyramus is a
desire to hear the fear of Got, and not to hear a
By such a day and hour.
Come, bid me do any thing for thee.
And fought so long, till that his thighs with darts
As thou art to thyself:
Of all thy suitors, here I charge thee, tell
Of Nature's gifts thou mayst with lilies boast,
Enter Host, DOCTOR CAIUS, and RUGBY
Of every hearer: for it so falls out
My lord, he doth deny to come.
The duke be here to-night? The better! best!
Ere the leviathan can swim a league.
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
What is that wrong whereof you both complain?
And kept his credit with his purse,
How like a younker or a prodigal
Search out thy wit for secret policies,
You have no cause.
And, Romans, fight for freedom in your choice.
to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
Death.
Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste.
When black-faced Clifford shook his sword at him,
Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack,
Nay, but, my lord,--
And forth my mimic comes. When they him spy,
After the prompter, for our entrance:
Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world.
He professes to have received no sinister measure
The even virtue of our enterprise,
Then brook abridgment, and your eyes advance,
News, my good lord, from Rome.
I thank thee: wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee:
Is he come?
He fastened on my neck, and bellow'd out
You were lately whipped, sir, as I think.
Three or four miles about, else had I, sir,
Have I lived thus long--let me speak myself,
Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul,
these two moles, these blind ones, aboard him: if he
Yet needful too, for youth no less becomes
Very gladly.
Let's take the instant by the forward top,
It skills not greatly who impugns our doom.
Duke Humphrey has done a miracle to-day.
And for her sake do I rear up her boy,
two helps, will so practise on Benedick that, in
Nay, he's a flower, in faith, a very flower.
The great Apollo suddenly will have
This is the man that can, in aught you would,
I do beseech you,
I saw upon her finger.
vessel makes the greatest sound.' Bardolph and Nym
Re-enter DENNY, with CRANMER
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
Say that again.
O, if thou grant my need,
Why, what need we
Which many a good tall fellow had destroy'd
desires, and my requests, and my petitions, to eat,
No matter:--wear them, betray with them: whore still,
And pray'd me oft forbearance, did it with
as Helen: an she were not kin to me, she would be as
He is wise,
And why so, my lord?
News, news from heaven! Marcus, the post is come.
So he doth you, my lord, and said this other day you
That thought her like her seeming, it had
Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves,
To oppose his hatred fully. Welcome home.
war-like, court-like, and learned preparations.
Three thousand ducats, 'tis a good round sum.
And yet words are no deeds. My father loved you:
When he might act the woman in the scene,
commendation with woman than report of valour.
Enter CINNA the poet
He for his father's sake so loves the prince,
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
None, but to desire your good company.
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.
O my sweet lady, pardon.
Me, wretch more worth your vengeance. But, alack,
And keep the turn of tippling with a slave,
The people will remain uncertain whilst
He and his forces enter the city
had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do,
As fears and reasons? fie, for godly shame!
Or thrive by other means.
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
Let's hear him, for the things he speaks
The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct,
Enter GLOUCESTER
Pray, sir, your pardon.
What says she to my face?
This shadowy desert, unfrequented woods,
So, so,
Thou canst not, son, it is impossible.
I pray thee, pretty York, who told thee this?
Save our deposed bodies to the ground?
And if she chance to nod I'll rail and brawl
Together with that fair and warlike form
Though you and all the kings of Christendom
Could not believe but that I was in hell,
itself courageous to petticoat: therefore courage,
Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart,
Most learned judge! A sentence! Come, prepare!
O villainous! I have looked upon the world for four
other course you please, which the time shall more
Enter GLOUCESTER
As they are going out, enter EDGAR disguised
Look, when I serve him so, he takes it ill.
No? wilt thou not? I like thy armour well,
Return'd my letter back. Then all alone
Whispers a Lord, who goes off in the barge of LYSIMACHUS
Art thou one of the Worthies?
And let young Arthur, Duke of Bretagne, in,
To stubborn harshness: and, my gracious duke,
His grace
foolish sapling, and must be bowed as I would have
Must I, then, leave you? must I needs forego
And, Norfolk, throw down his.
As many other mannish cowards have
Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss
SCENE I. The city gate.
Lepidus, let him speak:
Hath fear'd the valiant: by my love I swear
But what care I for words? yet words do well
To employ you towards this Roman. Come, our queen.
For here's a paper written in his hand,
Your faithful subject I, a gentleman
Myself and my good cousin Buckingham
Shalt have the air at freedom: for a little
Pursue him, ho! Go after.
For comfort is too far for us to expect.
Still ending at the arrival of an hour.
Yet fortune cannot recompense me better
Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you
How fares my noble lord?
The smell whereof shall breed a plague in France.
novelty is only in request, and it is as dangerous
down. They say this Angelo was not made by man and
Ay, the woman's maid of the house.
Who in contempt shall hiss at thee again:
There is no power in the tongue of man
That's AEneas: is not that a brave man? he's one of
By your leave, hostess.
Will you lead, lords?
In any thing that I do know by her.
Thy master thus with pleach'd arms, bending down
Why, uncle, what's the matter?
Armies of pestilence, and they shall strike
Let me be blessed for the peace I make,
And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.
More than a mortal seeming. Be not angry,
it pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man
I did her wrong--
Myself, my servant and, I fear me, you:
O, be not moved, Prince Troilus:
descend, my chambers are honourable: fie! privacy?
As then the messenger,--
Exit
By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
Peace! who comes here?
I smell it: upon my life, it will do well.
Now, for this night, let's harbour here in York,
Sir, I lack advancement.
Never did base and rotten policy
In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown:
Out on thee! Seeming! I will write against it:
That bastes his arrogance with his own seam
Enter LORENZO
Than vainly longing. What we oft do best,
I dread, too late.
I flatter not, but say thou art a caitiff.
The king is present: if it be known to him
To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew, having
With a new Gorgon: do not bid me speak,
Upon what cause?
'Tis past the hour, sir, that Sir Hugh promised to meet.
You have good judgment in horsemanship.
Call Edward king and at his hands beg mercy?
Is for my better grace. Adieu, my lord:
The lesser is scarce felt. Thou'ldst shun a bear,
victory in his pocket? the wounds become him.
Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe:
'Tis said he holds you well, and will be led
He may surrender, so we shall proceed
'On pain of losing her tongue.' Who devised this penalty?
What means that bloody knife?
Open the door, or I will break it open.
could see the puppets dallying.
ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL yet,
You shall not go: a lady's 'Verily' 's
Before the time I did Lysander see,
Caius and Valentine, lay hands on them.
Their heads to their foundations, though the treasure
So fill'd and so becoming: in pure white robes,
Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey:
Is any woman wrong'd by this lewd fellow,
lying, the longer kept, the less worth: off with 't
villanous speeches of the duke.
To mount aloft with thy imperial mistress,
of all treasons, we still see them reveal
My love as it begins shall so persever.
Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him.
And sooner dance upon a bloody pole
What, I, my lord? No, not for all the world.
have found in any part of Illyria. Will you walk
Beating him
in your air.
Deliver them, and your appeal to us
like a porter: and he was in love.
hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other,
Caesar, now be still:
Enter BIANCA
That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here.
Call Burgundy. Cornwall and Albany,
I talk not of your soul: our compell'd sins
Revenged!
What is about to be? I am out of breath,
For I have had such faults, but rather tell me,
There without ransom to lie forfeited,
An armour all of gold, it was a king's.
tricks upon's with savages and men of Ind, ha? I
Eros! mine armour, Eros!
And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
Larded with sweet flowers
ANTIPHOLUS
And princes' courts be fill'd with my reproach.
Sweet Portia, welcome.
Wherein thou seest me mask'd, for thy revenge
For when I am revenged upon my charm,
Nay, come not near th' old man, keep out, che vor
Enter PARIS and HELEN, attended
I'll geld 'em all, fourteen they shall not see,
Amen, sir: to my poor unworthy notice,
Well, I do then, yet I say I could show you to the
Fear me not, man, I will not break away:
A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in
This wins him, liver and all.
The senate-house of planets all did sit,
I shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness: but,
forget their faults, I drink to you.
Peace and prosperity! Who is't that calls
What hoop should hold us stanch, from edge to edge
Thanks, good Egeus: what's the news with thee?
We lop away, that bearing boughs may live:
O, then it moved her.
careless desolation, but you are no such man, you
Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts
That I stand up, and have ingenious feeling
With reverend fathers and well-learned bishops.
Why, fool?
Now, the melancholy god protect thee, and the
contented to be there, in respect of the love I bear
Have after-nourishment and life by care,
Is but the vain breath of a common man:
That it runs over even at his eyes.
combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo.
it, and the lady hath it: sweet clown, sweeter
What heir of York is there alive but we?
civil and humane seeming, for the better compassing
How he did seem to dive into their hearts
Exeunt all but EDGAR
I'll give thee, friend,
Enter MENENIUS, COMINIUS, SICINIUS, BRUTUS, and others
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
drums! Only to seem to deserve well, and to
Defend the justice of my cause with arms,
In that he did the thing for which he died:
Marry, God forbid his grace should say us nay!
That of thy death and business I can tell.
And let him ne'er see joy that breaks that oath!
thought, because he could not speak English in the
They stand, and would have parley.
And all indign and base adversities
Exeunt Pirates with MARINA
And of our labours thou shalt reap the gain.
in the exchange.
PUBLIUS,  and c. lay hold on CHIRON and DEMETRIUS
Say they know not, they cannot tell, look grimly,
may shine in at the casement.
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
Wilt thou have music? hark! Apollo plays,
And ne'er prefer his injuries to his heart,
Almost with ravish'd listening, could not find
Let them not live to taste this land's increase
Who? Camillo?
Thou art one o' the false ones. Now I think on thee,
This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo.
I will be satisfied: deny me this,
They shall not live within this world, I swear,
Enters the tomb
Is she your cousin?
That any Englishman dare give me counsel?
Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
He should have had a volume of farewells,
From my cold heart let heaven engender hail,
For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.
Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
They are so.
nothing, and that that I did, I was set on to do't
Before I speak, too threateningly replies:
And shivering shocks
And that's the wavering commons: for their love
Whereof we have record, trial did draw
Get you gone, sir, I'll talk with you more anon.
And were his daughter fairer than she is,
If there is one, I shall make two in the company.
access to you.
As if that name,
Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock.
Then go we in, to know his embassy,
To sit here at this present, and behold
How now, you whoreson peasant!
I'll blush you thanks.
Fitter for sickness and for crazy age.
To match my friend Sir Thurio to my daughter.
A parlous boy: go to, you are too shrewd.
Yet cease your ire, you angry stars of heaven!
name of Hero: she leans me out at her mistress'
And find out murderers in their guilty caves:
She's e'en setting on water to scald such chickens
Exeunt
Exeunt
How found you him?
Sweet lords, entreat her hear me but a word.
And manifest experience had collected
I'll stir them to it. Come, away, away!
They'll tell the clock to any business that
She is going
Of our most gracious mistress.
And lowly words were ransom for their fault.
Making defeat on the full power of France,
And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by,
Enter, below, BRABANTIO, and Servants with torches
I had a Rutland too, thou holp'st to kill him.
Not with the empty hollowness, but weight:
Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, GLOUCESTER, CARDINAL, and SUFFOLK, with Falconers halloing
My mother dead!
More truly now may this be verified,
He that is yours, sweet lady.
Where honourable rescue and defence
The noise is round about us.
With this thy fair and outward character.
Will he woo her? ay, or I'll hang her.
Hum--conspiracy!--'Sleep till I waked him,--you
Yet never have you tasted our reward,
is immortal, those that do die of it do seldom or
He puts the handkerchief from him, and it drops
Ready, my lord.
O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!
Farewell, my lord: trust not the Kentish rebels.
Alack, what noise is this?
Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
never bring them to light: would he were returned!
Go to, then: we'll use this unwholesome humidity,
does? a knave very voluble, no further
Is't possible?
According to the phrase or the addition
I do profess
I will not wish ye half my miseries,
I have done.
Thou earth, thou! speak.
From tawny Spain lost in the world's debate.
Prizes of accident as oft as merit:
small like a woman.
and I pray you all go with me.
out says thou art a fair corse, I'll be sworn and
Look you speak justly.
I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,
Thou'ldst thank me but a little for my counsel:
Well, my good lord, I have inform'd them so.
colour, some swooned, all sorrowed: if all the world
O, falsely, falsely murder'd!
Is he pardon'd, and, for your lovely sake,
'Confess' and 'love'
You say, that you'll have Phebe, if she will?
good natures
I should sin
Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out,
Here is my journey's end, here is my butt,
Enter SHYLOCK
A nest of hollow bosoms, which he fills
Let heaven revenge, for I may never lift
Why, this it is to be a peevish girl,
So mainly as my merit: I cannot sing,
And all good men, as every prince should do,
For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows,
cock, with your comb on.
When I first moved you.
An evident calamity, though we had
say I, 'you counsel well:' to be ruled by my
No master, sir, but a poor man's son: his father,
King Richard Coeur-de-lion was thy father:
Already to their wormy beds are gone,
Marry, this Claudio is condemned for untrussing.
Fled to his house amazed:
Rome shall remedy this.
O! my fear interprets: what, is he dead?
I cannot live out of her company.
You, that are king, though he do wear the crown,
In special business from his holiness.
Exit
Lorenzo, certain, and my love indeed,
Ay, and I'll give them him without a fee.
and that soundly: you cannot tell who's your friend:
Makes the survivor heir of all.
Should presently extirpate me and mine
Not mine to speak on 't.
The state or fortune fall into my keeping,
I can be patient, I can stay with Regan,
Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you,
repentance and, with his bad legs, falls into the
My liege, here is a villain and a traitor, that,
I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.
SCENE V. A public road.
How calm and gentle I proceeded still
Good my lord,--
Recanting goodness, sorry ere 'tis shown,
I'll teach you how to flow.
Your son's my father's friend, he takes his part.
Who, like a foul and ugly witch, doth limp
politic, he crossed himself by 't: and I cannot
Till then, adieu, and keep this holy kiss.
your ring, which, in my opinion, o'ervalues it
O, none of both but are of high desert:
My friend, I spy some pity in thy looks:
And it is very much lamented, Brutus,
I prithee, turn aside and weep for her,
Despising many forfeits and subduements,
Tamer than sleep, fonder than ignorance,
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
In all your business and necessities.
from lenders' books, and defy the foul fiend.
'Tis well, 'tis well, no more:
How now! do you hear this?
And he our subjects' next degree in hope.
I would have 'voided thee, but in mere spite,
with Camillo to take away the life of our sovereign
I am their mother, who should keep me from them?
O no, he lives, but is took prisoner,
So thrive my soul--
If we recover that, we are sure enough.
SCENE I. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
way of waste, attempt us again.
Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life:
I found the effect of love in idleness:
'Twould fall upon ourselves.
examined? let them come before master constable.
An unkind breach: but you shall make all well.
shepherd, from whose simplicity I think it not
Angering itself and others.--Bless thee, master!
cables of perdurable toughness, I could never
What's the matter? how now!
Achilles stands i' the entrance of his tent:
To your eye,
without these follies, that these follies are within
Thank the heavens, lord, thou art of sweet composure,
Sir John, you are so fretful, you cannot live long.
As oft as any passion under heaven
I weigh'd the danger which my realms stood in
This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.
A woman impudent and mannish grown
Well, I'll make excuse.
So I say.
In his own grace he doth exalt himself,
The conquerors can but make a fire of him,
Philomel, with melody
And ruminate himself, shall he be worshipp'd
ANTIPHOLUS
Hark, slave, it is but this:
Thy hand once more, I will not loose again,
Without suspicion.
Of that proud man that did usurp his back?
Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch
And let the queen know of our gests. To-morrow,
A thousand thousand sighs to save,
O,
Kneels
And now do I bethink me, so it is,--
Remember since you owed no more to time
Upon my daughter's head! Tell me, mine own.
Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
any matter of weight chances, call up me: keep your
and revels sometimes altogether.
Be to the prejudice of her present state,
would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
Her father and her country and her friends,
that, 'twas a pricket that the princess killed.
Envy and crooked malice nourishment
To attend the emperor's person carefully:
Fond done, done fond,
Of the dank morning? What, is Brutus sick,
Though sometimes you do blench from this to that,
Ay, if you come not in the blood of others,
The more you beat me, I will fawn on you:
word, but see how I lay the dust with my tears.
A fellow to it.
No, let me not.
Your highness aims at, if I aim aright.
They have been absent: 'tis good speed, foretells
But if an humble prayer may prevail,
Bassanio told him he would make some speed
Trumpets
And bears with glasses, elephants with holes,
Hung their heads, and then lay by.
Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
And that is false thou dost report to us.
As fox to lamb, as wolf to heifer's calf,
The duke was here, and bid us follow him?
And whipp'd the offending Adam out of him,
shall hear how things go, and, I warrant, to your
They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts,
This man has marr'd his fortune.
Nay, then,--
Are come from visiting his majesty.
The tiger now hath seized the gentle hind,
flow like the sea, being governed, as the sea is,
That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear,
Is every breath a death, and thus, unknown,
With haughty arms this hateful name in us.
Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them,
Enter KENT, disguised
[Aside to MOTH]  Their eyes, villain, their eyes!
Than he appears by speech: this is unwonted
What is the cause, Laertes,
Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,
Come, muster men: my counsel is my shield,
The more pity, that fools may not speak wisely what
From Cupid's shoulder pluck his painted wings
Have mercy, Jesu!--Soft! I did but dream.
With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear,
No, let me speak, and let me rail so high,
Was ever son so rued a father's death?
SCENE I. A hall in LEONATO'S house.
Tell us the Dauphin's mind.
Your leave, sweet Cressid!
We are shame-proof, my lord: and tis some policy
thou wilt. But, Francis!
Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is
never else cross me thus.
So shall I, love, and so, I pray, be you:
For all my blood in Rome's great quarrel shed,
And thus most humbly I do take my leave.
Enter ROSALIND for Ganymede, CELIA for Aliena, and TOUCHSTONE
Of gleaning all the land's wealth into one,
Antick'd us all. What needs more words? Good night.
Or wherefore dost abuse it, if thou hast it?
Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou wilt have
Now, go thy way. Faintness constraineth me
Well, the best is, she hath no teeth to bite.
So many miles upon her peaceful bosom,
Here, my lord.
[Beneath]  Swear.
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
duke is strong.' What say you to that?
Peace, my lord, hear, hear--
I would cozen the man of his wife and do his service.
Enter KING PHILIP, LEWIS, CARDINAL PANDULPH, and Attendants
And, in some sort, these wants of mine are crown'd,
A third is fled, that had a hand in it.
Is't possible?
Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast,
This is it that makes me bridle passion
Use honour with you.
Let us entreat, by honour of his name,
He's truly valiant that can wisely suffer
O, I am mock'd,
When now I think you can behold such sights,
Why, yet it lives there uncheck'd that Antonio hath
What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,
Though in her cradle, yet now promises
And he of these that can do most of all
one!
DON
The lord be praised!
Is this true, Pistol?
How my achievements mock me!
Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him.
That would not be a queen, that would she not,
Shall be a fume, and the receipt of reason
You would have bid me argue like a father.
And when she drinks, against her lips I bob
Exeunt
Boy!
Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,
To see no pastime I	what you would have
To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
Let me have men about me that are fat,
Therefore no marvel though Demetrius
SCENE II. A room in LEONATO's house.
For honour travels in a strait so narrow,
a fair hot wench in flame-coloured taffeta, I see no
Now will he interpret to her.
between eight and nine: I must carry her word
By that sin fell the angels, how can man, then,
And I.
Sir, be patient:
I prithee, vent thy folly somewhere else: Thou
Where is thy lady? Or, by Jupiter,--
Enter the Lady Abbess, AEMILIA
The motto, 'In hac spe vivo.'
not tell you on compulsion. Give you a reason on
'Tis but her picture I have yet beheld,
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
I am gone, sir,
Dearer than Plutus' mine, richer than gold:
Since every worth in show commends itself.
He finished indeed his mortal act
No matter where, of comfort no man speak:
And mock us with our bareness.
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The
Surely, by all the glory you have won,
No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man,
Why, what a candy deal of courtesy
Come, come,
I fear it is too choleric a meat.
Where is the provost?
With what his valour did enrich his wit,
I know, they do attend us.
How now, Malvolio!
That twenty such rude boys might tend upon
Enter PERICLES, wet
face again: but those that understood him smiled at
Exeunt
My damned son, which thy two sweet sons smother'd.
Tortive and errant from his course of growth.
Send danger from the east unto the west,
If that same demon that hath gull'd thee thus
Let me my service tender on your lips.
Out of the teeth of emulation.
Believe it, for you know it. There is money, spend
Captain Gower: the rascally, scald, beggarly,
The poor mechanic porters crowding in
PARIS passes
meat, sir, it shall be covered, for your coming in
Thou liest: his father is come from Padua and here
shift a trencher? he scrape a trencher!
Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.
Ay, there's the question, but I say, 'tis true:
Would from my forehead wipe a perjured note,
And mock him home to Windsor.
Haply, in private.
If I command him, follows my appointment:
What claim lays she to thee?
If you will then see the fruits of the sport, mark
Come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
And thou shalt find me at the governor's.
Bring it after me.
occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no
But to the rest.
Get you to bed again, it is not day.
As plain as I see you now.
live, he had suffered for't, you shall judge. He
So dear the love my people bore me, nor set
You are disputing of your generals:
Kneels to THAISA
will have the heart of him, if he forfeit, for, were
God's body! the turkeys in my pannier are quite
That is thy means to live. Do thou but think
A heaviness that's gone.
Or shall we on without a apology?
woman, she's a good wench for this gear. Father,
Your fire-new stamp of honour is scarce current.
To throw a perfume on the violet,
Who even in pure and vestal modesty,
Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
leg,--to what form but that he is, should wit larded
Philip! sparrow: James,
How true a gentleman you send relief,
Your dangerous lenity. If you are learn'd,
That may be, for you bear a many superfluously, and
No light, no fire: the unfriendly elements
Partly for that her promised proportions
My presence, like a robe pontifical,
Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself
Of that great shadow I did represent,
Ay,
Above the felon or what trespass else.
Who led me instantly unto his cave,
Let him not die. My brother had but justice,
Rise Richard, like a true Plantagenet,
Exeunt
We will bestow ourselves.
Now, sir, who's a cuckold now? Master Brook,
Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would
From strange to stranger. Say, how came you hither?
Of you that yet are well.
Ay, now methinks I hear great Warwick speak:
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning,
The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
And, uncle, so will I, an if I live.
It is not good to cross him, give him way.
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, MORTIMER, and GLENDOWER
Between two blades, which bears the better temper:
So long in his unlucky Irish wars
pleasure but in passion, not in words only, but in
No more of that: he did so.
Alarum within. Enter, with drum and colours,  KING LEAR, CORDELIA, and Soldiers, over the stage, and exeunt
Now, good angels
strike sooner than speak, and speak sooner than
that going will scarce serve the turn.
Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the pope.
Good, good: the justice of it pleases: very good.
To lingering sufferance. Answer me to-morrow,
That thou mayst shake the superflux to them,
Shall be call'd queen, but princess dowager
And I.
Then our office may,
Exeunt
best lord, I would make thee my lady.
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven,
Get horses for your mistress.
What shall we do?
His thread of life had not so soon decay'd:
Taste your legs, sir, put them to motion.
Go, bring them in: and take your places, ladies.
And made a preachment of your high descent?
By what yourself too late have spoke and done.
SCENE I. France. The English camp.
He shall again relate.
Within his tent, but ill disposed, my lord.
O gentlemen, the time of life is short!
Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
manage alone. Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto and Gadshill
Where we're offenders now, appear soul-vex'd,
Enter BRABANTIO, RODERIGO, and Officers with torches and weapons
An honest, willing, kind fellow, as ever servant
No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.
Who hath relieved you?
Exit
To come abroad?
Nor satisfying us.
'Now take them up,' quoth he, 'if any list.'
Shakes so my single state of man that function
Or half her worthiness that gave the ring,
On them to took and practise by myself.
My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London
Say, where shall's lay him?
Restores his heart: when valour preys on reason,
And am not I a prelate of the church?
into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away
Hath made his meal on thee?
To some she beggar and compounded thee
'Twixt two such shes would chatter this way and
A very serious business calls on him.
Well, well, my lords, respect him,
Enter DEMETRIUS, HELENA, following him
Toad, that under cold stone
Distinctly speak of her, though I may fear
Uncase thee, take my colour'd hat and cloak:
Enter EMILIA
But riches fineless is as poor as winter
All this amazement can I qualify:
Gloucester, 'tis true that we are in great danger,
Exit an Attendant
Is the argument of Time. Of this allow,
beasts most graze, birds best peck, and men sit down
Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock,
Did come to see you.
He is not here, so please your lordship that should sing it.
Of whence are you?
Do but behold yon poor and starved band,
Unless thou bring'st them with thee.
No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though
Hear me with patience.
Exeunt
the mortal Venus, the heart-blood of beauty, love's
Not met us on the way.
Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me.
You will have Gremio to keep you fair.
We have beat him to his camp: run one before,
Ay, sir, where lies that? if 'twere a kibe,
Most grave Brabantio,
An hypocrite, a virgin-violator,
O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand?
Cassibelan: I do not say I am one, but I have a
Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal:
The divine Desdemona.
Stand close up, or I'll make your head ache.
By any other name would smell as sweet,
Vanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech
No, not a syllable:
Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death
He cannot temperately transport his honours
Then, if you fight against God's enemy,
By this same coxcomb that we have i' the wind,
Stay we no longer, dreaming of renown,
I bought and brought up to attend my sons.
What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor,
For if he be not one that truly loves you,
Question, my lords, no further of the case,
the people.
I have a good eye, uncle, I can see a church by daylight.
I will not stay thy questions, let me go:
Upon his death?
Here comes another of the tribe: a third cannot be
And, being done, thus Wall away doth go.
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
As friendly as you were.
Come hither, fellow.
knowledge?
Dissemble not your hatred, swear your love.
Wherefore?
surely! O that I were a man for his sake! or that I
The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders
Methinks she should not use a long one for such a
stuff his suspicion more fully.--I will persevere in
So, two more already.
Not a jot, not a jot.
His outsides, to wear them like his raiment,
Marry, the Lord protect him, for he's a good man!
But madam, I must trouble you again,
For I myself must hunt this deer to death.
With every several pleasure in the world,
Is he at home?
As well we know your tenderness of heart
But there the duke was given to understand
Pluck a bard sentence: prithee, valiant youth,
Leaps into the grave
O, may diseases only work upon't!
They are return'd, my lord, and give it out
Were placed the heads of Edmund Duke of Somerset,
The story that is printed in her blood?
Manifest treason!
But justly, as you have exceeded all promise,
And think no more of this night's accidents
Who, all for want of pruning, with intrusion
Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens:
He is knight, dubbed with unhatched rapier and on
But my heart bleeds, and most accursed am I
My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
Give me thy hand,
And then we will deliver you the cause,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
[Rising up]  Embowelled! if thou embowel me to-day,
There thou speak'st reason: nay, I will do so.
As he hath spices of them all, not all,
So please you, it is true: our thane is coming:
Hautboys. A small table under a state for CARDINAL  WOLSEY, a longer table for the guests. Then enter  ANNE and divers other Ladies and Gentlemen as  guests, at one door, at another door, enter GUILDFORD
With more than common thanks I will receive it.
On the sixth hour, at which time, my lord,
Drum and colours. Enter MALCOLM, SIWARD and YOUNG  SIWARD, MACDUFF, MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS, LENNOX, ROSS, and Soldiers, marching
That Margaret may be England's royal queen.
And for three months.
Ay, good now, love, love, nothing but love.
trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection.
Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones and floods,
Puppet? why so? ay, that way goes the game.
Enter to the Protector at the Tower Gates BISHOP OF WINCHESTER and his men in tawny coats
Heard, not regarded, seen, but with such eyes
If she come in, she'll sure speak to my wife:
Torment me for my love's forgetfulness!
the count, have I run into this danger. Yet who
We are resolved, my lord.
Exeunt
Can task the free breath of a sacred king?
That did the like for Fleance: if thou didst it,
I am so fraught with curious business that
Cannot my body nor blood-sacrifice
A friend should bear his friend's infirmities,
the very yea and the no is, the French doctor, my
Ay, sweet Rosalind.
Yea and the best person too, and he is a very
Go, and be ruled: although I know thou hadst rather
Why art thou old, and want'st experience?
To bring but five and twenty: to no more
And foams at mouth, and he is arm'd and at it,
Who, weak with age, cannot support myself:
How, I pray you?
O, Nicholas Hopkins?
That she may boast she hath beheld the man
Than the queen's life? a gracious innocent soul,
turn the sun to ice with fanning in his face with a
What dost thou think?
If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay
By break of day, if the wind cease.
To give the world assurance of a man:
And all the fellowship I hold now with him
To touch his growth nearer than he touch'd mine.
If thou be merciful,
To cross the seas to England and be crown'd
There was our error.
for a placket. I have said my prayers and devil Envy
And stay here in your court for three years' space.
Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign
A maid, and stuffed! there's goodly catching of cold.
Thou hadst a Richard, till a Richard killed him,
I will look further into't: and I have a disguise
ANTIPHOLUS
Ran mad through sorrow: that made me to fear,
We still have known thee for a holy man.
Guards seize BERTRAM
My brain I'll prove the female to my soul,
Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him,
Good even, Varro: what,
One word, sir: our watch, sir, have indeed
Enter KING HENRY, BEDFORD, and GLOUCESTER
When at your hands did I deserve this scorn?
So, bring us to our palace, where we'll show
Ha, banishment! be merciful, say 'death,'
Yet, to avoid deceit, I mean to learn,
When he, conjunct and flattering his displeasure,
fear she'll prove as hard to you in telling your
constancy put to sea, that their business might be
Amongst his subjects and his loyal friends,
From thy admiring daughter took the spirits,
Now, good sir, what are you?
It were no less, but yet I'll make a pause.
Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest,
SCENE VI. London. The Tower.
ask you a question. Man is enemy to virginity, how
With thine, and all that offer to defend him,
possible for me to say I loved nothing so well as
urinal, that not an eye that sees you but is a
She's dead, my queen:
To have no screen between this part he play'd
Hast thou of me as she is for a wife.
love not Marcius.
Awaked the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
Is't lawful, pray you,
Send quickly down to tame these vile offences,
Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons such as they
'Thou unpossessing bastard! dost thou think,
O that Glendower were come!
To Master Brook you yet shall hold your word
O, how mine eyes do loathe his visage now!
Can truly say he gives, if he receives:
Of hardiness is mother. Ho! who's here?
Is not more smooth and rubious, thy small pipe
that was, your son that is, your child that shall
Have more than thou showest,
He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
We'll both together lift our heads to heaven,
Either withdraw unto some private place,
A lady wall'd about with diamonds!
Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
What canst thou say but will perplex thee more,
So it is.
Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he
And good supporters are you.
I have not known when his affections sway'd
Attested by the holy close of lips,
Would I had known no more! but she must die,
No longer for my flatterer: he is drown'd
Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
And Florence is denied before he comes:
And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
Third Serving-man	And I will see what physic the tavern affords.
Let them come in.
Thou art like one of those fellows that when he
We, having now the best at Barnet field,
If damned custom have not brass'd it so
And afterward by substitute betroth'd
Blushing to be encountered with a cloud.
And being fap, sir, was, as they say, cashiered, and
Expell'd remorse and nature, who, with Sebastian,
To my heart's hope! Gold, silver, and base lead.
The pine and let thee out.
hats and most courteous feathers, which bow the head
Daughter, well met.
love-broker in the world can more prevail in man's
SCENE V. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Nay, more, the king's council are no good workmen.
Heaven guide thy pen to print thy sorrows plain,
Have you heard any imputation to the contrary?
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
And what strength I have's mine own,
diet, to watch like one that fears robbing, to
He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes,
Than I to Hercules: within a month:
ACT IV
Come, go with me into mine armoury,
More than mistrust, that shows him worthy death.
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
Gently to hear, kindly to judge, our play.
Makes his approaches to the port of Rome:
I have got, in exchange of a hundred and fifty
Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge
But with proviso and exception,
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint,
No, sir, God forbid, but ashamed to kiss.
Not what he knew I was: he makes me angry,
This night the siege assuredly I'll raise:
But a harsh hearing when women are froward.
We were as twinn'd lambs that did frisk i' the sun,
Then shall we find to-morrow they have only stomachs
thing hereafter.
My masters of Saint Alban's, have you not beadles in
Have lost my daughter.
Nay, nothing, all is said
My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor,
grace say so: and, my lord, he speaks most vilely
And ne'er was Agamemnon's brother wrong'd
Proud Pole, I will, and scorn both him and thee.
His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
The morn that I was wedded to her mother.
Before he go to bed. I'll take my leave.
They bid us to the English dancing-schools,
What said my man, when my betossed soul
Or, when he doom'd this beauty to a grave,
Where lies he?
Master Brook, I will first make bold with your
Of what lies heavy to't.
Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal:
Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.
That's very true, my lord.
Obidicut, Hobbididence, prince of dumbness, Mahu, of
My penance is to call Lucetta back
In honour honesty, the tract of every thing
No, I'll not go: you hear what he hath said
go to bed.
My heart will be a burthen to me. Leave me,
O, sir, Lucentio slipp'd me like his greyhound,
Thou say'st his sports were hinderd by thy brawls:
We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will obey.
Like bubbles in a late-disturbed stream,
She may more suitors have and me for one.
Enter PAROLLES
To fight on Edward's party for the crown,
Let me have speech with you.
My tears are now prevailing orators.
O, wert thou for myself! But, Suffolk, stay,
Then cannot we be bought: and so, adieu,
Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
of hay: good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow.
France, thou mayst hold a serpent by the tongue,
When you are dead, you should be such a one
I pray thee, good Camillo, be no more importunate:
That are recorded in this schedule here:
Well, go thy way: thou shalt not from this grove
would have searched it, but fate, ordaining he
Before a friend of this description
I will not touch a bit.
Exeunt
And you the queen on't.
Farewell, good friar: I prithee, pray for me. The
Why speaks my father so ungently? This
Wilt dine with me, Apemantus?
As merry as you will.
But such a headstrong potent fault it is,
The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds,
To such as may the passive drugs of it
I shall no leading need.
What wicked and dissembling glass of mine
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and
Serve God, love me and mend. There will I leave
Foul fiend of France, and hag of all despite,
if bawdy talk offend you, we'll have very little of
So you, to study now it is too late,
I do not bid thee beg my life, good lad,
almost a fray.
Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
Mistress Elbow, being, as I say, with child, and
Shall top the legitimate. I grow, I prosper:
I will not have it so: lie down, good sirs,
Shall sink in my rebuke. Give me to know
And look thyself be faultless, thou wert best.
I draw a sword against conspirators,
Dear sir, forbear.
Steed threatens steed, in high and boastful neighs
I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babes
safely be admitted.
Deputing Cassio in his government.
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
From her inaidible estate, I say we must not
If I depart from thee, I cannot live,
My present vengeance taken: 'shrew my heart,
AEmilius, do this message honourably:
Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
Shall yield the other in the right opinion.
Why, yet he doth deny his prisoners,
Of saucy and audacious eloquence.
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
The heaviest and the worst
Ay, but thou usest to forswear thyself:
Enter EDGAR
And so shall you,
What is the trust or strength of foolish man?
That thou hadst call'd me all these bitter names.
With oaths of love, at last, if promise last,
Make good this ostentation, and you shall
To know your royal pleasure.
Full merrily the humble-bee doth sing,
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
Purple the sails, and so perfumed that
Why then your fears, which, as they say, attend
I meet the captains at the citadel.
Doth very foolishly, although he smart,
Your words have took such pains as if they labour'd
Bid every noise be still: peace yet again!
Thus, like the formal vice, Iniquity,
Have used to conquer, standing on the earth,
When the false Troyan under sail was seen,
Our windows are broke down in every street
I'm sure, in me.
O, heaven forgive us!
These nails should rend that beauty from my cheeks.
With bootless labour swim against the tide
Sirrah, if any ask you for your master,
O, make them joyful, grant their lawful suit!
SCENE I. Rome. A public place.
Exeunt
Down with him! down with him!
Good my lord,--
And so, intending other serious matters,
With Roman swords, and my report was once
Why, are you foolish? Can it be undone?
Exit Guardsman
Was once superfluous: you were crown'd before,
Myself by with a needle, that I might prick
As he in his particular act and place
Look you, I love you well, I'll give you gold,
with beating, I am waked with it when I sleep,
These poor informal women are no more
This way to death my wretched sons are gone,
And find no cheque? Let us, my liege, to arms:
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
Of contradiction: being once chafed, he cannot
Music. The witches dance and then vanish, with HECATE
Alas! he gets nothing by that. In our last
himself, for he does neither affect company, nor is
Bishop, farewell: shield thee from Warwick's frown,
Who is thy grandfather: he made those clothes,
Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
Thy womb let loose, to chase us to our graves.
If we do fear this body hath a tail
I pray you, show my youth old Shylock's house.
Orsino's enemy. A witchcraft drew me hither:
My son's no dearer.
I saw't not, thought it not, it harm'd not me:
There are that dare, and I myself have ventured
If I be false, or swerve a hair from truth,
Confound themselves. 'Tis strange that death
[Reads]  'This fail you not to do, as you will--'
Exit
Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes,
Ay, my lord, this same.
She made great Caesar lay his sword to bed:
I cannot help it now,
And will employ thee in some service presently.
matter of more weight, good Isis, I beseech thee!
The king has sent me otherwhere: besides,
And underneath that consecrated roof,
Tell him from me, as he will win my love,
That talk'd of her, have talk'd amiss of her:
No, no: alack,
by these presents.'
Or manage it to part these men with me.
Are nursed by baseness. Thou'rt by no means valiant,
Where's his examination?
The government I cast upon my brother
Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man
Alack, our terrene moon
Made prize and purchase of his lustful eye,
And so must I, sir: we have appointed to dine with
You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
Spake you of Caesar? How! the non-pareil!
Thy nature did commence in sufferance, time
hallowed and brought a benediction to the buyer:
The parts and graces of the wrestler
Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook, you shall want
Blow, blow, thou winter wind.
Show me one scar character'd on thy skin:
He leaves me, scorns me: briefly die their joys
And egally indeed to all estates,--
Thunder and lightning. Enter ARIEL, like a  harpy, claps his wings upon the table, and, with a quaint device, the banquet vanishes
Enough.
And what thou hast, forget'st. Thou art not certain,
'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.
To mow down thorns that would annoy our foot,
That darkness does the face of earth entomb,
What they are used to bear.
As passes colouring.
O, that exceeds, they say.
Than baits to fish, or honey-stalks to sheep,
thought of it, I would take Desire prisoner, and
A contagious breath.
Commit them to the fortune of the sea.
Takes it in might, not merit.
Is to himself--I will not say how true--
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
Brutus, a word with you.
SCENE I. London. The palace.
And so to study, three years is but short.
Somewhat against our meaning, have prevented:
I would lose all, ay, sacrifice them all
to him again, and he's yours.
Our people quarrel with obedience,
Exeunt
And every object that might make me fear
To you your father should be as a god,
At Pembroke, or at Harford-west, in Wales.
and if I bring thee not something to eat, I will
God save your grace! I do beseech your majesty,
I will not desire that.
Now, Master Slender,--
when he got me: therefore was I created with a
liberty of feasting from this present hour of five
Forgive a moiety of the principal,
The Earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment:
To back thy quarrels, whatsoe'er they be.
My dainty duck, my dear-a?
An if it please thee! why, assure thee, Lucius,
We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely,
Dead Shepherd, now I find thy saw of might,
I'll utter what my sorrows give me leave.
Mend him who can: the ladies call him sweet,
I am undone! The knight is here.
Now, forward with your tale. Prithee, stand farther
Return'd so soon! rather approach'd too late:
It was much like to do: he answer'd, 'Tush,
nose for thy speeches?
A loud alarum. Enter CLIFFORD, wounded
My last good deed was to entreat his stay:
good favour you have, but that you have a hanging
'Tis almost morning, I would have thee gone:
Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again: and
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
ACT III
From whom we do exist, and cease to be,
Had nobles richer and more loyal subjects,
Under pretence to see the queen his aunt--
If it might please ye,--
The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabour
SCENE I. Before OLIVIA's house.
throstle sing, he falls straight a capering: he will
Than now the English bottoms have waft o'er
O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
Give me a sword, I'll chop off my hands too,
I give heaven thanks I was not like to thee!
Nor I.
He did receive his letters, and is coming,
I am not mad, Sir Topas: I say to you, this house is dark.
Helena, adieu:
I have forgot the map.
Buried some dear friend? Hath not else his eye
As in good time he may, from Ireland coming,
[Within]  Who calls?
But cannot make my heart consent to take
'Tis well: the citizens,
'Hold thy peace, thou knave,' knight? I shall be
We doubt not of a fair and lucky war,
Neither, my lord.
Durst wag his tongue in censure. When these suns--
a more penitent trade than your bawd, he doth
Age is unnecessary: on my knees I beg
Ready.
And so swear I, my lord
As they us to our trenches followed.
Methinks I so should term them, and the reverence
A thievish living on the common road?
And brother-love I do it.
to your husband, to give him such cause of suspicion!
Thou art poor'st of all, then shortly art thou mine.
You lie.
If you suspect my husbandry or falsehood,
Nay, do not fright us with an angry look,
'Tis true, my brother's daughter's queen of Tunis,
Two days ago. This jealousy
Why, that word makes the faults gracious. Well,
every one of these letters are in my name. Soft!
To set the exact wealth of all our states
That I shall blush in acting, and might well
your lover.
Tends to God's glory and my country's weal.
At our entreaties, to amend that fault!
ANTIPHOLUS
Why Sir John, do you think, though we would have the
likes. 'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with
By the consent of all, we were establish'd
Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself,
better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
That I extend my manners, 'tis my breeding
Enter PANDARUS
say, we will do no harm with our swords, and that
Exit
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
Of these exactions, yet the king our master--
A damned death!
Will stand a tip-toe when the day is named,
When thou wast here above the ground, I was
To what may be digested in a play.
Was like, and had indeed against us pass'd,
That's Helenus. I marvel where Troilus is. That's
Nor store of treasons to augment my guilt,
But let us give him burial, as becomes,
All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth,
Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back,
Thanks, gentle tribune, noble brother Marcus.
More stern and bloody than the Centaurs' feast.
Have I not tarried?
for look you, Francis, your white canvas doublet
He that outlives this day, and comes safe home,
Consenting to the safeguard of your honour,
Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end,--
according to his cue.
So please your highness,
I see report is fabulous and false:
Make up the rest upon you!
Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest
lastly and finally, mine host of the Garter.
I may not go in without your worship: they will not
What he deserves of you and me I know,
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
In your condemned seconds.
The very last time we shall speak together:
And wounds the earth, if nothing else, with rage
And only live by gazing.
My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!
And kiss the lips of unacquainted change
Shall secretly into the bosom creep
And we will come. March away.
and master?
Nothing so sure, and thereby all forsworn.
Win straying souls with modesty again,
Or, ere they meet, in me, O nature, cesse!
Whiles lions war and battle for their dens,
owl and the cuckoo? It should have followed in the
state, which since his coming forth is thought
Assail them with the army of the king.
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both!
Thy mistress is o' the brothel! Son of sixteen,
Away, you fool! it more becomes a man
Exit
Give me thy arm:
say Amen. What ho! my Lord Achilles!
Concerning this, sir,--O  well-painted passion!--
I conjure thee to leave me and be gone.
The bay-trees in our country are all wither'd
Where others tell steps with me.
And tell fair Hero I am Claudio,
That brought thee to this world.
From my master, Sir Proteus, madam.
The sword of our slain kings: yet do not fear,
old: it were a goot motion if we leave our pribbles
Plutus himself,
That beggars mounted run their horse to death.
Only, good master, while we do admire
I will prevent this, detect my wife, be revenged on
And every one doth call me by my name.
power and corrigible authority of this lies in our
For that is her demand, and know her business?
I call'd thee then vain flourish of my fortune,
country mistresses, this gentleman at that time
Than you may call to comfort you, for I
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
So much as from occasion you may glean,
That framed him thus: time, with his fairer hand,
Though not his prime consent, he did not flow
Good name in man and woman, dear my lord,
Come on, our queen: to-morrow must we part,
Fret fetlock deep in gore and with wild rage
My lords, you know, as know the mightful gods,
'Tis very like: he hath the failing sickness.
country in denying me a kiss: therefore, patiently
For the most gentle Claudio.
interpreter, you must seem very politic. But couch,
Let have needful, but not lavish, means,
Will't please you walk aside?
O, thou art deceived, I would have made it short:
What do you read, my lord?
For Orpheus' lute was strung with poets' sinews,
Make her amends, she weeps.
When one is one too many? Go, get thee from the door.
O, would he did! and so perhaps he doth:
Dromio, nor thou?
But truly, I do fear it.
I think you have hit the mark: but is't not cruel
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer:
A parley sounded
Brothers, help to convey her hence away,
With drooping fog as black as Acheron,
And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
And tried his inclination, from him pluck'd
Howe'er unfortunate I miss'd my aim.
The regent conquers, and the Frenchmen fly.
So I shall mend mine own, by the lack of thine.
How much unlook'd for is this expedition!
Is my lord well, that he doth speak so wide?
Well, forward, forward! thus the bowl should run,
Why, my good lord, you need not fear,
Come, sir.
ANTIPHOLUS
but, to my thinking, he was very loath to lay his
And both like serpents are, who though they feed
By adding a tongue which I know will not lie.
Say I am dancing, if in mirth, report
As fits a king's remembrance.
and here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my
For of no right, nor colour like to right,
And these are of them. Whither are they vanish'd?
The provost knows our purpose and our plot.
Beast!
And slept above some fifteen year or more.
Stoop, I say,
Splitted the heart. This is his sword,
And bid him keep it better than the other.
For England go: I will whet on the king.
I have served you ever since I was a child,
Dead.
And made no deeper wounds? O flattering glass,
To weep with them that weep doth ease some deal,
Singing
If not of hell, the heavens, sure, favour him.
She shall pursue it with the soul of love:
O, you are a flattering boy: now I see you'll be a courtier.
O, I do fear thee, Claudio, and I quake,
worth the nineth part of a sparrow. This lord,
There was excellent command,--to charge in with our
'Tis midnight, Charles,
have I heard on o' the land, who never leave gaping
It was my hint to speak,--such was the process,
since I was three year old, conversed with a
The fitter, then, the gods should have her. Here
That he may furnish and instruct great teachers,
And sped you, sir?
Enter HAMLET, HORATIO, and MARCELLUS
[Reads]  'First demand of him how many horse the
But mine own safeties. You may be rightly just,
I rather would entreat thy company
Whiles that his mountain sire, on mountain standing,
A prince of Macedon, my royal father,
I saw her hand: she has a leathern hand.
yard, and the tailor with his last, the fisher with
prince's subjects. You shall also make no noise in
Enter TYRREL
Exeunt
honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
Nor I from Troy come not to whisper him:
To that your diamond, I'll keep them.
Which of the peers
Could but be brought to know our ends are honest,
by't: out with 't! within ten year it will make
Most ponderous and substantial things!
What are you then determined to do?
Somewhat too sudden, sirs, the warning is,
Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
Hark ye, not so: in witness, take ye that.
To MONTANO, who is led off
More noble than that runagate to your bed,
Master Hume, we are therefore provided: will her
a tailor to thee and shall make thee a new doublet
reputation. Come, shall we to this gear?
I did obey, and sent my peasant home
My lords, we were forewarned of your coming,
Am I so round with you as you with me,
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
And therefore, personally I lay my claim
That do contrive how many hands shall strike,
Did softly press the rushes, ere he waken'd
one that can steal well? O for a fine thief, of the
Heaven, be thou gracious to none alive,
The church's prayers made him so prosperous.
My parasite, my soldier, statesman, all:
By men of Epidamnum he and I
Read over Julia's heart, thy first best love,
Why I will fight with him upon this theme
And raise some special officers of night.
this is the time that the unjust man doth thrive.
Yet, spaniel-like, the more she spurns my love,
Have I not heard these islanders shout out
Like a proud river peering o'er his bounds?
But I am truest speaker you call'd me brother,
Good reasons must, of force, give place to better.
And she, like harmless lightning, throws her eye
And thus I win thee.
I would surrender it.
What is your will?
When Gloucester says the word, King Henry goes,
To what end, my lord?
Sparing would show a worse sin than ill doctrine:
Give grandam kingdom, and it grandam will
True ornaments to know a holy man.
I'll make my heaven in a lady's lap,
At a poor man's house, he used me kindly:
I hope so, sir, for I have about me many parcels of charge.
There's not a man I meet but doth salute me
And here, I hope, is none that envies it.
I threw her overboard with these very arms.
O, my lord, my lord! the sheriff with a most
Now welcome more, and ten times more beloved,
We see the very wreck that we must suffer,
incarnal, and, in my conscience, my conscience is
Contemn with mows the other, nor i' the judgment,
I prithee, let thy wife attend on her:
will be with thee again.
Enter a third Servant
Or perform my bidding, or thou livest in woe,
Then, venom, to thy work.
Herself and hers are highly bound to thee.
And gain a husband by his liberty.
It were a shame to call her back again
I am question'd by my fears, of what may chance
We will here part.
A leg of Rome shall not return to tell
tres-puissant seigneur.
Still him in praise: and, being present both
Lo, she is one of this confederacy!
'Say, the firm Roman to great Egypt sends
born to do me shame.
Go, leave me.
Have all his ventures fail'd? What, not one hit?
Did you perceive
our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
Thou art a most pernicious usurer,
I am freely dissolved, and dissolutely.
Do what ye will, my lords: and, pray, forgive me,
Would the fountain of your mind were clear again,
bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I sprang not
I answer you! what should I answer you?
I will tell thee wonders.
On me, whose all not equals Edward's moiety?
And from her bosom took the enemy's point,
me.'
To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death,
and rather, as it seems to me now, keepest from me
To her he hates? and wherefore doth Lysander
religiously, and, as a certain father saith,--
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
cold as any stone, then I felt to his knees, and
myself: they have pitched a toil, I am toiling in
They stand at the door, master, bid them welcome hither.
Bears not alive so stout a gentleman.
Low alarums
A man of sovereign parts he is esteem'd,
Let me but stand, I will not hurt your hearth.
O, ominous! he comes to kill my heart.
DON
Upon this present action.
Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news,
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries
The jewel in my dower, I would not wish
Go, sirrah, trudge about
Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down.
Upon my knees, what doth your speech import?
Else your memory is bad, going o'er it erewhile.
Not she which burns in't. I'll not call you tyrant,
Enter TITANIA, with her train
Shall I tell you a lie? I do despise a liar as I do
And that, by great injunctions, I am bound
As bending angels, that's their fame in peace:
[Aside]  If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me,
Again possess her corpse, and on this stage,
dost thou converse with that trunk of humours, that
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Her hair, what colour?
And left me in reputeless banishment,
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep:
The hind that would be mated by the lion
You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of
engines for my life.
Sun that warms you here shall shine on me,
Chrish save me, I will cut off your head.
He will make you a hundred and fifty pounds jointure.
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
No pains, sir: I take pleasure in singing, sir.
A lass unparallel'd. Downy windows, close,
Nor his qualities.
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers,
Prince of Wales, as I have read in the chronicles,
To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
her help to put you in your place again: she is of
Poor worm, thou art infected!
Come hither to me, Master Elbow, come hither, Master
Why, then mine honesty shall be my dower,
from Don Armado: I beseech you, read it.
From time to time I have acquainted you
To find the other forth, and by adventuring both
Duke of Alencon, this was your default,
To do you justice, make them ministers
But do you remember? 'Madam, why laugh you at such
Come, my masters, the duchess, I tell you, expects
For such a one we show'd 'em: if they smile,
Faith, none for me, except the north-east wind,
And not a maiden, as thou say'st he is.
that I have not ended yet.
Did not deserve corn gratis. Being i' the war
mistress. Thou pratest, and pratest, serve with thy
Exit with Jessica and Salarino
Whose maiden blood, thus rigorously effused,
Whoe'er a' was, a' show'd a mounting mind.
What's your pleasure, sir?
What say'st thou?
I was advertised their great general slept,
Commend me to your niece.
Until this day, to scour it in the dust.
Are they not but in Britain? I' the world's volume
To keep her chamber.
And by other warranted testimony.
I think she has: certain it is I liked her,
The Knights dance
Is lechery so look'd after?
prince of chivalry!
If England to itself do rest but true.
By my valour, the most complete champion that ever I
With musics of all sorts and songs composed
thankfully. I will piece out the comfort with what
You say well.
When Richmond was a little peevish boy.
To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
And with your blood and it I'll make a paste,
Most generous and free from all contriving,
And harbourage for ourself, our ships, and men.
It could not else be, I should prove so base,
Gentles, do not reprehend:
'Tis the right ring, by heaven: I told ye all,
Exeunt
Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking or
Who is it in the press that calls on me?
A forted residence 'gainst the tooth of time
Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate, or else shall I?
eyes! By so much the more shall I to-morrow be at
I do not know you so good a man as myself: so
He does me wrong, my lord, if I were so,
And rather proved the sliding of your brother
him once again, and then I will tell him a little
You never saw her since she was deformed.
Henry of Lancaster, resign thy crown.
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
Than will preserve just so much strength in us
Stands at a guard with envy, scarce confesses
'Good den, sir Richard!'--'God-a-mercy, fellow!'--
for they loved well when they were alive. Now part
As here at home, suggests the king our master
Enter LEWIS and his train
Wherein, my friends, have I offended you?
Nay, I have offer'd all, I have no more,
intended fire your city is ready to flame in, with
As Caesar's death hour, nor no instrument
And be true king indeed, thou but the shadow.
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
We never valued this poor seat of England,
Another tell him of his hounds and horse,
Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.
hearkened to their father's testament. There was a
In short time after, he deposed the king,
A' was a merry man--took up the child:
Here is my hand, and here I firmly vow
You did nothing, sir.
corrupt her, only he hath made an essay of her
Right,
Cuts off more circumstance: they are at hand,
At Antium.
All good people,
Though all these English and their discipline
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
And when that we have dash'd them to the ground,
Exeunt all but ANTONY
Enter KATHARINA and BIANCA
Where stain'd nobility lies trodden on,
Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
And she alone is heir to both of us:
My most dear lord!
I cannot blame his conscience.
shalt woo her. Cried I aim? said I well?
Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?
Of this fair couple, meets he on the way
Things to strike honour sad. Bid him recount
COUNTESS
So beggars marry many.
That comes to hazard for my worthless self.
Else with the like I had requited him.
So long a breeding as his white beard came to,
Mistress, how mean you that?
Tug him away: being whipp'd,
mind good, O, there were desolation of gaolers and
Ay, full as dearly as I love myself.
Enter SIR ANDREW
Still it cried 'Sleep no more!' to all the house:
That head of thine doth not become a crown,
Exit
Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!
I think he would not wish himself any where but
To find the mind's construction in the face:
O'ercome you with her show, and in time,
A station like the herald Mercury
Not for the fliers: mark me, and do the like.
Made hard with kneeling, I do pray to thee,
What rub or what impediment there is,
Command, I mean, of virtuous chaste intents,
DON
Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless.
good jests of him. Pray you, uncle, tell Mistress
Well, I will visit her: tell her so, and bid her
Here comes my man, I think he brings the money.
Of Hamlet's transformation, so call it,
Right.
This stage the ship, upon whose deck
Certain ones then.
marriage than the love of the parties.
Here in Vienna, sir.
We need no grave to bury honesty:
Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
Nor never come in vizard to my friend,
'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
If more thou dost perceive, let me know more,
most sage demoiselle dat is en France.
Yes, madam, but I think your grace,
Master constable, you go not the way to examine:
happily effected.
The strength o' the enemy.
Till you compound whose right is worthiest,
Why, what a rascal art thou then, to praise him so
Our abbeys and our priories shall pay
But that his beard grew thin and hungerly
Exit
Drag hence her husband to some secret hole,
Enter Messenger and TALBOT
Till time beget some careful remedy.
Whate'er you be, I am obedient.
Love, lend me wings to make my purpose swift,
With hair up-staring,--then like reeds, not hair,--
Take it, brave York. Now, soldiers, march away:
Our parents and us twain,
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
made the night light with drinking.
ye pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
Kneeling
And bad'st me bury love.
Forced to cry out. Where I could not be honest,
Thus pour the stars down plagues for perjury.
Alexander the Great.
Enter MACDUFF and LENNOX
What man was he talk'd with you yesternight
Mark me.
SCENE I. Before the castle.
Say it, Othello.
To fright them hence with that dread penalty.
I had thought, sir, to have held my peace until
Where is Posthumus? What is in thy mind,
As I shall find the time to friend, I will.
This ornament
And rush'd into the bowels of the battle.
Should with your body.
Or the division of the twentieth part
'Vive le roi!' as I have bank'd their towns?
Exeunt, bearing MARK ANTONY
Between the acting of a dreadful thing
The constable desires thee thou wilt mind
Together working with thy jealousies,
Achievements, plots, orders, preventions,
On which I'll toss the flower-de-luce of France.
Hath puddled his clear spirit: and in such cases
By your most gracious pardon,
You will bestow her on Orlando here?
On yon young boy: I'll tell thee what, my friend,
By fixing it upon a fairer eye,
He's very likely now to fall from him,
And may that thought, when I imagine ill
Sirrah, your brother is legitimate,
Is this true, Nerissa?
That I might hear thee call great Caesar ass
have her or no.
It must be done this afternoon.
His confessor, who fed him every minute
that we may yet again have access to our fair
Why, this it is, when men are ruled by women:
say if the importance were joy or sorrow, but in the
'Tis thine they give away, and not their own.
With honour, as in war, since that to both
Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman much
It is, my lord.
My daughter takes his going grievously.
And hedged me by his wit, to yield myself
Exeunt
She sung, and made the night-bird mute,
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad--
This, my lord.
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
I made no spare, sir.
And formless ruin of oblivion,
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
I speak too loud.
Vent my folly! he has heard that word of some
Rising
die, but that, my offences being many, I would
Are ministers of Fate: the elements,
Puts down the skull
So think I too.
Of plain old form is much disfigured,
Not cowardly put off my helmet to
Exeunt, bearing the body of CORIOLANUS. A dead march sounded
Not honestly, my lord, but so covertly that no
More valour in me than my habits show.
What kind of my obedience I should tender,
That jack-an-apes with scarfs: why is he melancholy?
And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
You'll ask me, why I rather choose to have
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
Biron is one of the votaries with the king, and here
Let me have audience, I am sent to speak:
All the land knows that:
I will kiss thy royal finger, and take leave. I am
Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter,
Is my kinsman, whom the king hath wrong'd,
Even so. Cover their faces.
Upon him as he pass'd: the nobles bended,
We shall, noble captain.
With heraldry more dismal, head to foot
Peace! she sings.
Farewell!
As much as ever Coriolanus did.
Do you hear, sir? To leave frivolous circumstances,
That so degenerate a strain as this
Consuming it with speaking!
To execute the noble duke at Calais.
doublet, four through the hose, my buckler cut
Will you set your wit to a fool's?
No villanous bounty yet hath pass'd my heart,
Go, write it in a martial hand, be curst and brief,
Therefore I came unto your majesty.
By thy revolt, O husband, shall be thought
Is so possess'd with guilt: come from thy ward,
Which neither here I'll keep nor bear again,
Cried 'Cursed fate that gave thee to the Moor!'
That, in this case of justice, my accusers,
What's the matter, lieutenant?
Had still kept loyal to possession
some to make bonfires, each man to what sport and
Within the house, your mistress is at hand,
Than feed it with such over-roasted flesh.
Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:
Which else runs tickling up and down the veins,
And as wondrous affable and as bountiful
Why, sir, that is as fit as can be to serve for
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
We will, fair queen, up to the mountain's top,
An he should, it were an alms to hang him. She's an
To give away thy land,
Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car,
Do, good friend.
Art thou a messenger, or come of pleasure?
With sharp constraint of hunger, better 'twere
More bright in zeal than the devotion which
I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good.
Keep then this passage to the Capitol
The cicatrice and capable impressure
We shall, my lord.
Tapster, a poor widow's tapster.
Away toward Bury, to the Dauphin there!
In fair round belly with good capon lined,
The sooner to effect what I intended:
To brag unto them, thus I did, and thus,
Or till the Destinies do cut his thread of life.
One syllable against him?
Therefore come you with us and let him go.
Which they will make an obedient father.
That for the beauty thinks it excellent.
O true apothecary!
Exit Officers with LUCIO
Tell him I'll send Duke Edmund to the Tower,
Upon thy words, that kill mine eye and heart!
Why, well.
Lord Thaliard from Antiochus is welcome.
I am Misanthropos, and hate mankind.
In fellest manner execute your aims.
The citizens of Corioli have issued,
How could that be?
Madam, I'll follow you unto the death.
O, now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel,
Call him in.
Swarming with caterpillars?
For stale to catch these thieves.
I have made strong proof of my constancy,
We shall hear more anon.
Exit
that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness:
SCENE II. The street before the prison.
honour, in giving him our own voices with our own
Is it so brave a lass?
Because their business still lies out o' door.
Exeunt
Stew'd in his haste, half breathless, panting forth
Do:
Than Hector's forehead when it spit forth blood
And leave him all, life, living, all is Death's.
Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow:
You must hang it first, and draw it afterwards.
ever before. Give me thy hand, Roderigo: thou hast
As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men set upon us--
melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples,
Sound, trumpet!
By circumstance, to curse thy cursed self.
No, my lord.
For my confections? Having thus far proceeded,--
Then there were two cousins laid up, when the one
Suffolk, what remedy?
No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a
Yourself pronounce their office. I must tell you,
make your wit bankrupt.
Doubt truth to be a liar,
Come, now a roundel and a fairy song,
an emperor's side and command him tasks.
In life but double death, now Gloucester's dead.
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear,
Finish the process of his sandy hour,
Or made a toast for Neptune. Even so
Hark you, Guildenstern, and you too: at each ear a
Tell Helicanus, my Marina, tell him
As from a bear a man would run for life,
Are you agreed?
Enter LEONATO and ANTONIO
Then thus. Baptista is safe, talking with the
no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the
Tear-falling pity dwells not in this eye.
Here they fight. CADE falls
league between my good man and he! Is your wife at
now is the whole man governed with one: so that if
This youth should say 'twere well and only therefore
Let fame, that all hunt after in their lives,
To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind,
You're a made old man: if the sins of your youth
Exit
Such as will enter at a lady's ear
With those gross taunts I often have endured.
How, how, pray you? You amaze me: I would have I
off his drum in any hand.
But, my lord,
Desire them an to my pavilion.
Luxuriously pick'd out: for, I am sure,
upon the exploit themselves, which they shall have
To your high presence.
And call me father? better burn it now
And those that bear them living.
Our youngest born, I could as well be brought
To separate the husband and the wife.
Thou tremblest at, answer that I shall ask,
these eyes? I cannot tell, I think not: I will not
The honourable lady of the house, which is she?
If you oppose yourselves to match Lord Warwick.
Katharina, I charge thee, tell these headstrong women
Instead whereof let this supply the room:
What you profess.
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath
Thou out of heaven's benediction comest
Now, messenger, what letters or what news
not bite another, and wherefore should one bastard?
Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke
Even so must I run on, and even so stop.
What hope is there of his majesty's amendment?
The untented woundings of a father's curse
To LADY ANNE
To add unto his sickness? No, my Brutus,
Hear me, people, peace!
May have a tomb of orphans' tears wept on em! What more?
But I bespoke you fair, and hurt you not.
is to look into happiness through another man's
Since God so graciously hath brought to light
Did I not, fellow?
To be your Valentine.
She ne'er had known pomp: though't be temporal,
In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms,
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
That what we did was mildly as we might,
Sir, she is mortal,
To be opposed against the warring winds?
Did warrant me was likely.
Pardon me, Bianca:
See here in bloody lines I have set down,
For what before it was.
Exactly is perform'd: but there's more work.
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
Dobbin my fill-horse has on his tail.
That thou art malcontent? I will provide thee.
And you, monarch!
Or else return no more into my sight.
Where's the thane of Cawdor?
RICHARD
As likely to be blest in peace and war,
Giving a paper
Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs:
'Farewell:'
A napkin steeped in the harmless blood
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
But which are the offenders that are to be
That's our offer.
And God in justice hath revealed to us
I would have broke mine eye-strings, crack'd them, but
And will dispatch.
Go, you cot-quean, go,
Fiend, thou torment'st me ere I come to hell!
handsome fellow! Come, thou shalt go home, and
SCENE IV. The same. Pandarus' house.
If not, how best to bear it.
Is 't not the king?
You know him well?
How tastes it? is it bitter? forty pence, no.
Do strongly speak to us, but the letters too
To the duke himself, to tax him with injustice?
What you bestow, in him I'll counterpoise,
In to our tent, the air is raw and cold.
But not intentively: I did consent,
With letters of entreaty, which imported
And in the essential vesture of creation
Another would fly swift, but wanteth wings,
Shall be my friend again and I'll be his:
In favour was my brother, and he went
Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb,
Hourly joys be still upon you!
the hands of one, as he thinks, the most brave,
Had number'd thirteen years.
Adder, Spider,
And deal with others better.
But we will be revenged sufficiently
cowardly rascal, nature disclaims in thee: a
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
And thou shouldst tow me after: o'er my spirit
In such an honour: how may I deserve it
On my particular. Prepared I was not
am: the violet smells to him as it doth to me: the
Rage must be withstood:
Is so from word to word, and then you cannot,
Music ceases
My silence and my cloudy melancholy,
not mark that?
Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters!
She is my goods, my chattels, she is my house,
And do invite you to my sister's view,
A bawbling vessel was he captain of,
I would they were in Tiber! What the vengeance!
Gentle spectators, that I now may be
Look he's winding up the watch of his wit,
I know her father, though I know not her,
This would have seem'd a period
Stand all aloof: but, uncle, draw you near,
To be disturb'd, would mad or man or beast:
So soon as you arrive, shall clear that doubt.
He could not sit his mule.
I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow.
Or nature makes me suddenly relent.
Seek him, and bring him hither.
The uncleanly savours of a slaughter-house,
Pray their graces
Or, being open, put into his hands
Upon my life, my lord, I'll under-take it,
Madam,
hath not my gait in it the measure of the court?
Recoil from your great stock.
Here's France and Burgundy, my noble lord.
Say to great Caesar this: in deputation
Give me some help! O cruel! O you gods!
For there young Henry with his nobles lie.
No? when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she
What! can so young a thorn begin to prick?
love it, nor your affections and your appetites and
His givings-out were of an infinite distance
I come to have thee thrust me out of doors.
freshly grow, then shall Posthumus end his miseries,
likelihood than to see me at her chamber-window,
But, Warwick, after God, thou set'st me free,
A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools,
As I live,
And will again commit them to their bonds,
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
God give thee joy of him! the noble lord
God's benison go with you, and with those
Gratiano!
And you must cut this flesh from off his breast:
Why should you fear? is not your city strong?
No needful thing omitted.
Of every line and trick of his sweet favour:
Exit
So holy and so perfect is my love,
they will away presently.
Bidding the law make court'sy to their will:
He raised the house with loud and coward cries.
Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
To make that worse, suffer'd his kinsman March,
Good lords, conduct him to his regiment:
I am content, so he will let me have
My gracious lord, return to Killingworth,
Kneeling
Awake, thou coward majesty! thou sleepest.
And your great love to me restrains you thus:
By many of these trains hath sought to win me
Whoop'd out of Rome. Now this extremity
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
For nature doth abhor to make his bed
In such a night
Within a fortnight!
sing it at her death.
Enter PAROLLES
Then hear me, gracious sovereign, and you peers,
And the gods doom him after!
Where I may have fruition of her love.
I have used it, nuncle, ever since thou madest thy
O England! model to thy inward greatness,
Thrive, give him over: must I take the cure upon me?
Yet once again proclaim it publicly,
Doubly divorced! Bad men, you violate
Know you before whom, sir?
Signior?
tying his new shoes with old riband? and yet thou
To royalize his blood I spilt mine own.
prave passages, marry, th' athversary was have
To undercrest your good addition
Do not repent these things, for they are heavier
O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
'Remember who commended thy yellow stocking s,'--
As might have drawn one to a longer voyage,
As if that whatsoever god who leads him
He will do all in all as Hastings doth.
Relieved him with such sanctity of love,
That, when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth
Exeunt all but BRUTUS
Would I or not: tell him I'll none of it.
Work on,
Exit POLONIUS
I mean, she is brought a-bed.
Light, I say! light!
Nay, let her languish
Take thou what course thou wilt!
Servant, you are sad.
Sir, by your leave.
And, as the world were now but to begin,
Live loathed and long,
I do believe it, for they pass'd by me
What my tongue dares not, that my heart shall say.
would go thither, so, indeed, all disquiet, horror
blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
Exeunt LUCIUS and MARCUS
One sin, I know, another doth provoke,
Who by repentance is not satisfied
heart, let that pass. By the world, I recount no
are bred better, for, besides that they are fair
My voice is now the king's, my looks mine own.
None, man, all idle: whores and knaves.
Thou'rt a scholar, let us therefore eat and drink.
Therefore exhale.
Exeunt
Seeking to hide herself, as doth the deer
Exeunt Officers with MISTRESS OVERDONE
I am now of all humours that have showed themselves
Marry, my uncle Clarence' angry ghost:
Of mine own eyes.
That thrust had been mine enemy indeed,
By interception which they dream not of.
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
Come on, then,
O upright judge! Mark, Jew: O learned judge!
raised with it when I sit, driven out of doors with
O, they love least that let men know their love.
Proposing with the prince and Claudio:
I'll not believe't.
Which way they went.
That I am sudden sick: quick, and return.
Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice?
You are married?
Bless you, sir!
A long flourish. They all cry 'Marcius! Marcius!'  cast up their caps and lances: COMINIUS and LARTIUS stand bare
Though every drop of water swear against it
Why dost thou call him a knave?  What's his offence?
These and these conveyances of our blood
RICHARD
Upon a valiant race thy harsh
To come abroad with him at his request.
Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES, with other Lords of Tyre
married man'?
I hope so: go and search.
Because my name is George.
The master-cord on's heart!
I fly, Biondello: but they may chance to need thee
Drum heard
would my master had Mistress Anne, or I would
I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
Strike up our drums, to find this danger out.
It was a vision fair and fortunate:
Know you any, Hero?
There is no cause: when you shall know your mistress
cony-catched in this business: I dare swear this
Sir, his stoutness
You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear
Hath made us by-words to our enemies.
Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy.
Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford,
As loud, and to as many tunes: hats, cloaks--
If we have unearned luck
And like the watchful minutes to the hour,
Like exhibition thou shalt have from me.
I do repent. Alas! I have show'd too much
That my youth suffer'd. My story being done,
I will be even with thee, doubt it not.
against the law of arms: 'tis as arrant a piece of
That we could hear no news of his repair?
Let him be whipt and hang'd.
Given to the fire, a moiety of my rest
To speak of peace or war.
further use to be made than alone the recovery of
In this my light deliverance, I have spoke
When Prospero is destroyed.
Of Jove himself, and now reigns here
Ford, on whom to-night I will be revenged, and I
And e'en as if your lord should wear rich jewels,
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student,
Within the centre.
Base inclination and the start of spleen
My wife comes foremost, then the honour'd mould
Exeunt
Well, sir, I will. Have you the chain about you?
What! loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
[Within]  Mother, mother, mother!
Which the world together joins,
Ay, sir, in Pisa have I often been,
Nor claim no further than your new-fall'n right,
What will Biron say when that he shall hear
Tell me of corn!
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
As did AEneas old Anchises bear,
videlicit, in a love-cause. Troilus had his brains
Nay, for methought yesterday your mistress shrewdly
His years but young, but his experience old,
Upon remainder of a dear account,
bound to your answer? this learned constable is
Ay, but these English are shrewdly out of beef.
Of worthy Frenchmen: let higher Italy,--
distemper yours, therefore I shall crave of you your
To let him live: where he arrives he moves
Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
He will clapper-claw thee tightly, bully.
The woman's, flattering, hers, deceiving, hers,
Dost thou hear me, old friend, can you play the
Breasting the lofty surge: O, do but think
I have the patience to endure it now.
With tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts,
Now to that name my courage prove my title!
[Aside]  Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
Of my true mother.
By underhand corrupted foul injustice,
Does pay thy labour richly, go.
But I bethink me what a weary way
Let it not be sweet.
Your lack of love or bounty, you were straited
Much castigation, exercise devout,
Flourish. The King and his train enter the town
Lest I might be too rash:
No, in good sooth: the fire is dead with grief,
out by that?
'Faith, there's no way to be rid on't but by the
I'll lend you thus much moneys'?
And out of heart, master: all those three I will prove.
No, I'll not rear
A deep repentance: nothing in his life
Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
But that our loves and comforts should increase,
Clip dead men's graves and from their misty jaws
adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of
It was the pleasure of my lord the King.
And give me swift transportance to those fields
But I will lift the down-trod Mortimer
But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
And coops from other lands her islanders,
testiness, shall turn all into my commendations. My
Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
To melt myself away in water-drops!
Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
[Within]  Let him walk from whence he came, lest he
And pray her to a fault for which I chid her.
Would now be glad of bread, and beg for it:
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
taking a beggar without less quality. But how comes
lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me
Set your heart at rest:
The man that hath no music in himself,
How many children hast thou, widow? tell me.
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices
through the most fond and winnowed opinions, and do
Rights by rights falter, strengths by strengths do fail.
Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
'Tis strange.
my means. The jewels you have had from me to
but something given to lie, as a woman should not
But in what nature?
Of their best trust, o'er them Aufidius,
Those which I heaved to head!--the good Posthumus--
Bid me farewell.
Taught thee to make vast Neptune weep for aye
Happily
To unbuild the city and to lay all flat.
It stains the glory in that happy verse
Traitor, restore Lavinia to the emperor.
Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king,
Breathless and bleeding on the ground. Art
To help thee curse that poisonous bunchback'd toad.
Re-enter DOLABELLA
There shall your master have a thousand loves,
Yours by this hand: and to see how he prizes the
Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE
Become them with one half so good a grace
Could never go so slow: I have heard of
By this hand, I am. Good fool, some ink, paper and
bestowed much on her, followed her with a doting
Will you give horns, chaste lady? do not so.
Hear the ambassadors.
All tongues to talk their bitterest.
Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand,
O heavy lightness! serious vanity!
And all the troops of English after him.
And his and mine loved darling.
From some forefather grief, mine is not so,
Exton, I thank thee not, for thou hast wrought
I will hear further reason for this.
How do you? how do you?
The air hath starved the roses in her cheeks
Hast stol'n it from her?
Give me thy fist, thy fore-foot to me give:
Exit
You may deny me, but I'll be your servant,
Enter a Messenger
Alas, sir, are you here? things that love night
about to expound this dream. Methought I was--there
Of Antony's death.
O, let me stay,
The passion of loud laughter never shed.
SCENE IV. The heath. Before a hovel.
Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
And then I told you true: and yet, dear lady,
Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry and take the fool
about me, I am no gibbet for you. Go. A short knife
Receive it from me. I speak not yet of proof.
A little happier than my wretched father:
Give us the proudest prisoner of the Goths,
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
What sudden anger's this? how have I reap'd it?
to lie as to live chastely. Therefore, go back.
Atalanta's better part,
My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
Coriolanus, that they are in a ripe aptness to take
than to hear you. If you be not mad, be gone, if
For, till I see them here, by doubtful fear
Well, my good lord, and as the only means
Lords, give us leave, the Prince of Wales and I
Noting this penury, to myself I said
Yea, even the slightest worship of his time,
Where our scenes seem to live. I do beseech you
But where's the great Alcides of the field,
They have tied me to a stake, I cannot fly,
blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained:
on no water.
Was Mahomet inspired with a dove?
Think not the king did banish thee,
Waged equal with him.
If holy churchmen take delight in broils?
I keep a servant fee'd. I will to-morrow,
Your noble friends do lack you.
Will fall some blessing to this land, which shall
commons of Melford.' How now, sir knave!
Nor to his service no such joy on earth.
Away,
Master Antipholus,--
I'll tell you what, my cousin Buckingham,--
God bless you, sir.
'A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.'
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
This house, these servants and this same myself
A Grecian's life hath sunk, for every scruple
To you all three,
You never had a servant to whose trust
[Aside]  Nor more willingly leaves winter, such
There was no money in't: not Hercules
bountiful to the desirers. Therefore, beseech you,
A senseless villain! Good Hortensio,
To GONERIL
I dare, and do defy thee for a villain.
DON
'Tis his main hope:
And so obsequious will thy father be,
Whose welcome, I perceived, had poison'd mine,--
Anon, I'm sure, the duke himself in person
Since when I have been debtor to you for courtesies,
If you misdoubt me that I am not she,
Will well become the seat of majesty,
My lord the king, the king!
You may my glories and my state depose,
What dreadful dole is here!
son's pranks too, who, I may say, is no honest man,
Marry, do I, sir, and I came to acquaint you with a
And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence
I prophesy the fearful'st time to thee
A proper jest, and never heard before,
Such as the shortness of the time can shape,
There I shall see mine own figure.
Save what is opposite to England's love.
For torturers ingenious: it is I
wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion in prey.
No more of drowning, do you hear?
linen: since when, I'll be sworn, he wore none but
His mother was a votaress of my order:
Well, what worst?
that suffers under probation A should follow but O does.
Which gape and rub the elbow at the news
SCENE IV. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
I never spake with her, saw her, nor heard from her,
Or else he seeks out us.
been that day in the belfry.
And therefore to revenge it, shalt thou die,
The drum your honour hears marcheth from Warwick.
Do not, my lord.
Nor here provincial. My business in this state
I'll follow instantly.
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
Are at the duke's already: you have been
For hear her but exampled by herself:
Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of justice
ACT I
nayword, and make him a common recreation, do not
Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come gentlemen,
O, many
For God's sake let him have 'em, to keep them here,
That I regard it not.
To his concupiscible intemperate lust,
So, Dolabella,
Get you gone, you dwarf,
Not for Cadwallader and all his goats.
Might corrupt minds procure knaves as corrupt
'Tis holy sport to be a little vain,
What a long night is this! I will not change my
Five days we do allot thee, for provision
me.
Could trammel up the consequence, and catch
And know themselves and you.
Exeunt
For I am ignorant and cannot guess.
As old as Sibyl and as curst and shrewd
This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother,
Lucius, awake!
Your own present folly and her passing deformity:
Or Somerset or York, all's one to me.
Whereto we are bound? alack, or we must lose
Look, what I speak, or do, or think to do,
But once a-day, it would unclog my heart
And, being troubled with a raging tooth,
To the oath of loyalty, this object, which
Ha! wherefore?
Fair Helena, who more engilds the night
The robb'd that smiles steals something from the thief,
I think I did, sir, I deny it not.
BISHOP
The hart ungalled play,
That God fought for us.
Drum afar off
ANTIPHOLUS
If they perceive dissension in our looks
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:
About the ninth hour, lady.
May have the world in empire!
Exeunt
What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
skill in grass.
She may, my lord, for--
Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
And those boils did run? say so: did not the
As sure a card as ever won the set,
That the rude sea grew civil at her song
The handmaids of all women, or, more truly,
Never to part with it, and here he stands,
Cowards die many times before their deaths,
Took their discharge.
It is in mine authority to command
To painful labour both by sea and land,
and undoes description to do it.
I must believe my master, else, I promise you,
There's half-a-dozen sweets.
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
set him clear. How fairly this lord strives to
Fill me a bowl of wine. Give me a watch.
He offers in another's enterprise,
Not being torn a-pieces, we have done:
I see no more in you than in the ordinary
Is still at Tarsus, where each man
The music there!--I pray you, give her air.
Of many desperate studies by his uncle,
Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave.
Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you
Speak, man.
am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you.
The face of Caesar, they are vanished.
In the last conflict, and made plenteous wounds!
Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
Bardolph, I say,--
I know not how much more, should be demanded,
powers of the kingdom approach apace.
Did we, my lord?
Which to maintain I would allow him odds,
Brother, though I be youngest, give me leave.
That might annoy my finger? 'tis so strange,
Exeunt
And friends with Caesar.
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
Up, princes! and, with spirit of honour edged
Saying, he'll lade it dry to have his way:
Or never after look me in the face:
Here's the midwife's name to't, one Mistress
Thy ambition,
Reads
And instantly unlock my fortunes here.
Beggars, that come unto my father's door,
Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
Ay, that I had not done a thousand more.
Nay, rather, wilt thou draw thy forces hence,
his happier affairs may be, are to me unknown: but I
She spitteth at him
Loather a hundred times to part than die.
She and the Dauphin have been juggling:
Doctor Caius,--
And shall I then be used reproachfully?
Never durst poet touch a pen to write
they make you not then the better answer, you may
Then you will bring the chain to her yourself?
at the gate?
That he shuts up himself, imagine me,
Then, brother John of Lancaster, to you
Nay, that's true, that's very true. Go, Tubal, fee
Some misadventure.
Though Bassianus be the emperor's brother.
Truly, by your office, you may, but I think they
Harry le Roy.
I scorn you not: it seems that you scorn me.
ACT V
Convey me Salisbury into his tent,
Upbraided me about the rose I wear,
Which love to all, of which thyself art one,
We will not look upon him: go with us.
You snatch some hence for little faults, that's love,
AEsculapius? my Galen? my heart of elder? ha! is
Show nothing but confusion, eyed awry
Being entertained for a perfumer, as I was smoking a
fortune hath conveyed to my understanding, and, but
Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up
Is he well shipp'd?
fond, but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
It is my son, young Harry Percy,
no stronger than the word of a tapster, they are
They are in readiness.
of 'we three'?
No, indeed.
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
Such a compounded one?
And both shall cease, without your remedy.
To save her life, I'll say she is not so.
Or whether that such cowards ought to wear
But, were my worth as is my conscience firm,
They draw
What else?
Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
them, I will describe them, and, according to my
For me, my lords,
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
Why, shall we turn to men?
parle, know now, upon advice, it toucheth us both,
murderer dead,
I thought upon Antonio when he told me,
Mounsieur Cobweb, good mounsieur, get you your
Bear to my closet. Fare thee well, Pisanio,
To send down Justice for to wreak our wrongs.
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
Ay, marry, does he. If he should intend this voyage
I cannot hear of any that did see her.
O gracious duke,
S. Withold footed thrice the old,
To Hymen, god of every town!
he would cudgel you.
What now? how chance thou art return'd so soon?
Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it,
Till I have found each letter in the letter,
As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
As fearful as a siege.
I then did feel full sick, and yet not well,--
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
Repairs itself by rest. Our Tarquin thus
enough in his purse, such a man would win any woman
To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
Of the young prince your son: send straight for him
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
Fasten'd ourselves at either end the mast,
Come you, sir: if justice cannot tame you, she
You mistake, sir, I am sure no man hath any quarrel
There's meed for meed, death for a deadly deed!
Which, from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp'd
Do not believe him. O, behold this ring,
operation of your sun: so is your crocodile.
And call her hourly mistress. Who was with him?
or no, the velvet knows, but 'tis a goodly patch of
I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder
Till one can do no more.
Exeunt
Within these ten days if that thou be'st found
very good, i' faith. I sent thee sixpence for thy
But even this night, whose black contagious breath
at the next turning of all, on your left, marry, at
As I subscribe not that, nor any other,
Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
For my part, noble lords, I care not which,
I pray ye, greet them fairly.
And such a welcome as I'd give to him
Exit
We must with all our main of power stand fast:
And show of love as I was wont to have:
That you create your emperor's eldest son,
Hear what I say, and then go home and lose me.
There's yet one good in ten.
That lady is not now living, or this gentleman's
To both your honours.
So, lie thou there: die thou, and die our fear,
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
With female fairies will his tomb be haunted,
As the dog Jew did utter in the streets:
Where's Alexas?
Who's that which calls?
I call them forth to credit her.
Fear me not.
Then must I think you would not have it so.
Malevolent to you in all aspects,
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
But where is Kate? where is my lovely bride?
There, when my maiden priests are met together,
Exeunt King Edward and his company. March. Warwick and his company follow
Enter ABHORSON
Ay, Casca, tell us what hath chanced to-day,
Let him that is no coward nor no flatterer,
sensible man, by and by a fool, and presently a
That put Armado's page out of his part!
Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended
Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead.
See! Iachimo!
Enter three or four Conspirators of AUFIDIUS' faction
myself and thee during my life, I for a valiant
Well, what then?
Gall of goat, and slips of yew
And, to be brief, my practise so prevail'd,
Authority.
The bristled lips before him: be bestrid
In that I'll war with you.
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!
In my behavior to the majesty,
Patience herself, what goddess e'er she be,
Sweet Desdemona! O sweet mistress, speak!
If he were living, I would try him yet.
Or died where they were made, or shortly after
That's the letter I writ to her friend.
thy tongue tang arguments of state, put thyself into
And about evening come yourself alone
If you deny it, let the danger light
The which he promised. Do but encave yourself,
And, being credulous in this mad thought,
That it may be this day read over in Paul's.
You could not with more tame a tongue desire it:
To bless your eye withal.
How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat,
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
Thou never comest unto a happy birth,
though grey
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
Of her or you, having proceeded but
God give him joy!
Came pouring, like the tide into a breach,
he wants money.
'Tis passing good: I prithee let me have it.
means and content is without three good friends,
But seek revenge on Edward's mockery.
Sir, the people
Wherein thyself shalt highly be employ'd.
daughter for a monkey.
Enter KATHARINA
Proculeius,
And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
Health and fair time of day, joy and good wishes
O'er-picturing that Venus where we see
be his heir, for what he hath taken away from thy
How now! art thou mad?
Afford no extraordinary gaze,
This tribute from us, we were free:
Your beauty was the cause of that effect,
His good sword in his hand.
Their savage eyes turn'd to a modest gaze
I'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love,
Cannot hold out to Tyrus: there I'll leave it
Nature this dowry gave, to glad her presence,
Nay, but the man that was his bedfellow,
Should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so?
Come, mistress, now perforce we will enjoy
Enter FRIAR JOHN
Present approach.
With many heads butts me away. Nay, mother,
Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than
Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd.
So say we too, but not by Edward's wife,
Finely attired in a robe of white.
He had a black mouth that said other of him.
Wretched shall France be only in my name.
Gone to her tent. Please it your majesty
Bring me unto my trial when you will.
We have been guided by thee hitherto,
Sister, it is not a little I have to say of what
most required and necessary.
[Sings]  'O, the twelfth day of December,'--
Exit JOHN OF GAUNT
Will you sup there?
'Tis positive 'gainst all exceptions, lords,
And, to kill the marvel,
A vessel of our country richly fraught:
Here, if it like your honour.
Remove you hence: I knew you at the first
niece is already in the belief that he's mad: we
Was the Hero that here lies:
I shall obey you in all fair commands.
They draw
I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
Ay, ay: away with her to execution!
approaches, courtesies there to me,--
Whoever got thee, there thy mother stands,
Well, I will do it, sir: fare you well.
Set it down. Is ink and paper ready?
Enter PISTOL
Why follow'd not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
an ell and three quarters, will not measure her from
Now will I stir this gamester: I hope I shall see
Before thy most assured overthrow:
The oldest hath borne most: we that are young
And, dying, mention it within their wills,
have brought you from Venice. Watch you to-night,
Ay, marry, uncle, for I always thought
I will discuss the humour of this love to Page.
You would be satisfied?
Well, now can I make any Joan a lady.
Therefore, most gracious duke, with thy command
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
poor woman.
And fearful, as these strange eruptions are.
You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella
To vice you to't, that you have touch'd his queen
Though heaven cannot: O Romeo, Romeo!
Do so. Between nine and ten, sayest thou?
Exeunt OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
Which is that Barnardine?
Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
'Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt
Let what is here contain'd relish of love,
Well, then, go you into hell?
cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
Which, like a waxen image, 'gainst a fire,
Henry is dead and never shall revive:
Am I a queen in title and in style,
Caesar, 'tis strucken eight.
That's more to me than my wetting: yet this is your
So to enforce or qualify the laws
You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay.
up of these men's bills.
And turn'd that black word death to banishment:
One of thy eyes and thy cheek's side struck off!
That you may know you shall not want, one word.
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
Know the whole world, he is as valiant.
That you are fool'd, discarded and shook off
The English whisper together in council
Uncle, I needs must pray that thou mayst lose,
And, lozel, thou art worthy to be hang'd,
At each his needless heavings, such as you
Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within
Yet I am none: whose tongue soe'er speaks false,
In underprizing it, so far this shadow
'Tis past, and so am I. But what art thou
Is all unknown to me, my gracious lady.
Nay, my lord,
I thank you, doctor.
to the sleeve-hand and the work about the square on't.
She was too good for me: but, as I said,
Not yet.
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning
Enter OBERON
'Item: She hath more hair than wit, and more faults
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
The aediles, ho!
No, that it is too little.
What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
Exeunt severally
Do you see nothing there?
Relent! 'tis cowardly and womanish.
Let us survey the vantage of the field
I think verily he had been hanged for't, sure as I
this a quarter of an hour.
And I will kiss thy foot: I prithee, be my god.
Can sick men play so nicely with their names?
we will draw the curtain and show you the picture.
Philip of France, on peril of a curse,
they be true, if not true, none were enough.
Recount, I do beseech thee: come, sit by me.
Yet so my fancy may be satisfied,
heart good. Yonder comes Paris, yonder comes Paris.
Ha, come and bring away the nets!
Our people and our peers are both misled,
Once every hour.
How now, Pisanio!
Where we, in all her trim, freshly beheld
But were the day come, I should wish it dark,
That young swain that you saw here but erewhile,
Come, come, return, return, thou wandering lord:
Whilst summer lasts and I live here, Fidele,
But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
not to kill the duke.
Tear him to pieces, he's a conspirator.
And let the soul forth that adoreth thee,
No big-boned men framed of the Cyclops' size,
And like the tyrannous breathing of the north
Tom Snout, the tinker.
This is the liver-vein, which makes flesh a deity,
Which, but thou hast already, with all my heart
Now leaves him.
How now, mad spirit!
Or aught intend'st to lay unto my charge,
And fair words to them.
knowest her not?
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
time that ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport
By all the vows that ever men have broke,
The due o' the verdict with it: at what ease
Look, whether he have not crown'd dead Cassius!
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
On his behalf.
If any such be here--as God forbid!--
A thousand talents to me.
To meet at London London's king in woe.
Vouch with me, heaven, I therefore beg it not,
Enter aloft SLY, with Attendants, some with apparel, others with basin and ewer and appurtenances, and Lord
O my good lord, you were the first that found me!
And now to Helen is it home return'd,
Thou pray'st not well.
lamb when it baes will never answer a calf when he bleats.
thunderbolt.
He never did harm, that I heard of.
Consisting equally of horse and foot,
And mock for mock is only my intent.
We shall try fortune in a second fight.
She speaks this in the infirmity of sense.
Who then recover: say thou art mine, and ever
My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd,
O thou, the earthly author of my blood,
Whom have we here? Buckingham, to disturb me?
What! will you fly, and leave Lord Talbot?
For that I knew it the most general way--
Unseen, unvisited, much to our shame.
[Aside]  Lord Lucius and Lucullus? hum!
For 'tis to such a thing,--
These rural latches to his entrance open,
Exeunt
Your hostages I have, so have you mine,
He searcheth his pockets, and findeth certain papers
by your leave, good mistress.
Falstaffs, he shall not abuse Robert Shallow, esquire.
I pray you home to dinner with me.
Did you e'er meet?
husband, Master Brook, dwelling in a continual
The curse my noble father laid on thee,
With rival-hating envy, set on you
Was round encompassed and set upon.
There's none protector of the realm but I.
For I have need of many orisons
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
As wedged with a sigh, would rive in twain,
As I am subtle, false and treacherous,
played their parts with Beatrice, and then the two
noise there? What are you?
And if his name be George, I'll call him Peter,
Take up the sword again, or take up me.
But I shall do thee mischief in the wood.
His sovereign's life to death and treachery.
enfreedoming thy person, thou wert immured,
than the stripes I have received, which are mighty
You are never without your tricks: you may, you may.
For this reason, if you'll know,
To an asp, which she applies to her breast
O, he's returned, and as pleasant as ever he was.
By Juno, I swear, ay.
[Looking into the cave]
Until the goose came out of door,
French quarrels enow, if you could tell how to reckon.
challenge this glove, I have sworn to take him a box
yards about, but I am now about no waste, I am about
As take from me thyself and not me too.
To spend the time to end it.
To CLEOPATRA
Stay, you that bear the corse, and set it down.
Shall I put him into the basket again?
Have we done aught amiss,--show us wherein,
'My thoughts do harbour with my Silvia nightly,
to you: so you may continue and laugh at
Come down, and welcome me to this world's light,
Cast your election on him.
And on this north side win this cape of land,
My lords, what to your wisdoms seemeth best,
Determine for her, for Caesar cannot live
I thank you.--By yond bush?--Pray, how far thither?
And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin,
To LAVINIA
slighted me into the river with as little remorse as
Whom son I dare not call, thou art too base
I'll look to like, if looking liking move:
But let not therefore my good friends be grieved--
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
Fit to be made companion with a king:
Timon will to the woods, where he shall find
I think upon't, I think: I smell't: O villany!--
Ay, it is no matter.
Will you be cured of your infirmity?
O Antony!--Nay, I will take thee too.
And thou art wedded to calamity.
so God keep your worship!
I'll reconcile me to Polixenes,
I should be guiltier than my guiltiness,
though I say it, though old man, yet poor man, my father.
Attorney'd at your service.
And he that speaks doth gripe the hearer's wrist,
There is no measure in the occasion that breeds,
And let us to the Tiger all to dinner,
Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon beaks
And bring us word unto Octavius' tent
Which dances with your daughter?
Be like a beacon fired to amaze your eyes.
My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty,
I hear him as he flatter'd.
Thy nephews' souls bid thee despair and die!
Ere that correction. Troilus, I say! what, Troilus!
Ne'er heard I of a warlike enterprise
And let no quarrel nor no brawl to come
Let me see thine eyes: wink now: now open them:
Enter GOWER, before the temple of DIANA at Ephesus
The ringleader and head of all this rout,
Hence from Verona art thou banished:
And how my men will stay themselves from laughter
Come, let me see what task I have to do.
He that no more must say is listen'd more
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but,
Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's
Now, where's your master'?
Comest thou because the anointed king is hence?
How now! where's that mongrel?
Noble philosopher, your company.
It is young Orlando, that tripped up the wrestler's
Ah, in good sadness, is he, and talks of the basket
Which God revenge!
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
He meant he did me none, the more my spite.
Why do you wring your hands, and beat your breast,
paid to Master Brook, his horses are arrested for
Before he'll buy again at such a rate:
All is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.
It tutors nature: artificial strife
The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.
I am glad I was up so late, for that's the reason I
Till he hath lost his honey and his sting,
Pitied nor hated, to the face of peril
Is it a beggar-man?
And say besides, that in Aleppo once,
We thank you both: yet one but flatters us,
I pray, desire her call her wisdom to her.
Wherein the king stands generally condemn'd.
That she'll demand: a ring the county wears,
Do.
You cannot shun Yourself.
you, is digt himself four yard under the
And hold her free, I do beseech your honour.
As his strong sides can volley.
Your mind is tossing on the ocean,
make me honest.
I must and will have Katharina to my wife.
For grief is proud and makes his owner stoop.
I would not by my will have troubled you,
benches after noon, that thou hast forgotten to
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Their liberties, make them of no more voice
Enter CERES
About it, gentlemen!
Than all thy woes can stir, therefore betake thee
Exeunt
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
I give to baser life. So, have you done?
officious, for I am proof against that title and
Do not abuse my master's bounty by
Thus strangers may be hailed and abused: O
Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
Swearing that you withhold his levied host,
He little cares for and a daughter who
Reveal the damn'd contriver of this deed.
Enter LYSIMACHUS
Lies down and sleeps
Exeunt
[To KING RICHARD III]
And Valentine I'll hold an enemy,
Exeunt GONERIL, EDMUND, and OSWALD
What's that to thee? why may not I demand
To hear the lamentations of Poor Anne,
Talk not to me: I will go sit and weep
A smiling with a sigh, as if the sigh
More torches here! Come on then, let's to bed.
Forgive him, Angelo, that brought you home
Why then, rejoice therefore.
In deep of night to walk by this Herne's oak:
Exit, borne off by his Attendants
Until the queen his mistress bury it.
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
Content you, gentlemen: I will compound this strife:
If you were men, as men you are in show,
tell her but a worky-day fortune.
Show us the way, sir.
I will stand for 't a little, though therefore I die a virgin.
Shallow, esquire, saith, he is wronged.
So God help Montague as he proves true!
If I have fewest, I subscribe in silence.
From ashes ancient Gower is come,
When thou dost meet good hap, and in thy danger,
Him he knew well, and guess'd that it was she,
How came
No, Caius Marcius,
Exeunt all but HAMLET and HORATIO
Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day:
To a most noble judge, the king my master.
Then, what it was that next came in her eye,
SCENE III. Dunsinane. A room in the castle.
Ungentle queen, to call him gentle Suffolk!
All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.
off.
laid by, in his nakedness he appears but a man, and
This is the sergeant
You bid me seek redemption of the devil:
Wherein--let no man hear me--I take pride,
Great tyranny! lay thou thy basis sure,
Bequeathed down from many ancestors,
Whom he hath dull'd and cloy'd with gracious favours,
So shall each lord of Greece, from tent to tent:
The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
O paradox! Black is the badge of hell,
into the Park: we two must go together.
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly:
Exeunt
[Awaking]  When my cue comes, call me, and I will
he would mouth with a beggar, though she smelt brown
A prosperous gentleman, and to be king
Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.
the tribulation of Tower-hill, or the limbs of
That I'll requite its last? No:
swear by your beards that I am a knave.
point. Four rogues in buckram let drive at me--
Lavinia, thou shalt be employ'd: these arms!
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
to myself, they'll be snatching. Give me an egg,
bed, and warm thee.
friendship falls off, brothers divide: in
Philip, what say'st thou to the cardinal?
Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums,
Had he been slain, we should have heard the news,
Was to be trusted with them.
For love of her that's gone,
By me that's said or done amiss this night,
I was told that  by one that knows him better than
Ill-weaved ambition, how much art thou shrunk!
With him is Gratiano gone along,
That we the pain of death would hourly die
Thy age confirm'd, proud, subdued, bloody,
What is the matter?
I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope.
that then thou mightst kill 'em and bid me to 'em!
Upon this ground, and more it would content me
I swear to you. I think Helen loves him better than Paris.
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
In zeal to you and highly moved to wrath
My lord, we'll do it throughly.
'Zounds, I will speak of him, and let my soul
accent was a plain knave, which for my part
Nor once deject the courage of our minds,
Made she no verbal question?
Pales in the flood with men, with wives and boys,
ACT II
Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard.
Away from the light steals home my heavy son,
Making you ever better than his praise
As I intended, for it wrought on her
O, that the slave had forty thousand lives!
O worthy fool! One that hath been a courtier,
This Cressida in Troy? Had she no lover there
They wrestle
If it Please your honour, I am the poor duke's
But Antony's hath triumph'd on itself.
He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
Thy burning car never had scorch'd the earth!
Well then, now
Chance as fair and choose as true!
another's dotage, and no such matter: that's the
Who's there, ha?
His head by nature framed to wear a crown,
What, what, what? let's partake.
Thou art Dromio, thou art my man, thou art thyself.
Ay, sir, we are some of her trappings.
My mercy dried their water-flowing tears,
Like a forlorn and desperate castaway,
for one fair French maid that stands in my way.
With what contempt he wore the humble weed,
Shylock, the world thinks, and I think so too,
Either to suffer shipwreck or arrive
And strangers ne'er beheld but wondered at,
Name Cleopatra as she is call'd in Rome,
Did you such a thing?
And usest none in that true use indeed
I need not tell him that, he knows you are too diligent.
I cannot live to hear the news from England,
By this sun that shines,
he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in
'Tis true, my lords, he did.
Love's feeling is more soft and sensible
Enough to purchase what you have made known.
Under the colour of commending him,
Since the exile of Posthumus, most retired
Guess thou the rest, King Edward's friends must down,
Hear a little further
Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd:
Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty:
Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all.
I'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle.
weapons in your hand, and kill me a red-hipped
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! beware Macduff,
There's a testril of me too: if one knight give a--
is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
Haste, signify so much, while we attend,
man a doit.
Ah, what sharp stings are in her mildest words!
Pinch them, arms, legs, backs, shoulders, sides and shins.
Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.
O, that's well said, the chair!
Nor to her bed no homage do I owe
Give me excuse, good madam, I will obey you in every
I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.
No, he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft
He makes sweet music with the enamell'ed stones,
Shall be crown'd in Brutus.
No.
Saw you my daughter?
Let's see these pockets: the letters that he speaks of
Hath placed thy beauty's image and thy virtue.
How many inches doth fill up one mile.
For, sure, my thoughts do hourly prophesy
You greet with present grace and great prediction
I'll follow, as they say, for reward. He that
Yes, lion-sick, sick of proud heart: you may call it
Where may we set our horses?
While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.
As you fly from your oft-subdued slaves.
I am not Adriana nor thy wife.
They froze me into silence.
God bless me from a challenge!
And Lapland sorcerers inhabit here.
too disputable for my company: I think of as many
Exeunt
That when I am in heaven I shall desire
Lest by his clamour--as it so fell out--
Bring him forth: has sat i' the stocks all night,
Will you encounter the house? my niece is desirous
My words disbench'd you not.
It's past the size of dreaming: nature wants stuff
After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought,
Dispose of them as thou know'st their deserts.
I do, and bear the shame most patiently.
Why, so he doth, now he delivers thee
On their departure most of all show evil:
And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by,
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
The ceremony?
day is hot, and the weather, and the wars, and the
Had not been broken, nor my brother slain:
Therefore bring forth the soldiers of our prize,
Nor ever didst thou draw thy sword on me:
To shape my legs of an unequal size,
Sir, 'tis your brother Cassius at the door,
I thank ye all. To you, my good lord mayor,
Heart's discontent and sour affliction
They fight. KING HENRY being in danger, PRINCE HENRY enters
Than such an one to reign.
But not a niggard of your speech: how goes't?
All parts of his subjection loyally. For Cloten,
Would it not grieve an able man to leave
This life is most jolly.
But with her most vile principal, that she's
what's thyself?
At thy good heart's oppression.
The doctrine of ill-doing, nor dream'd
Affected greatness got by you, not you:
[Aside]  As many inches as you have oceans. Puppies!
Than for your lady's: you may gather more.
Nay, do not say, 'stand up,'
I will tell her, sir, that you do protest, which, as
Now, master doctor, have you brought those drugs?
That come before the swallow dares, and take
Whom from the flow of gall I name not but
Forthwith for what you come. Where's Gardiner?
Exit
Here to have death in peace is all he'll crave.
In peace there's nothing so becomes a man
'Tween man and man they weigh not every stamp,
Bestride our down-fall'n birthdom: each new morn
Your pleasure and my promise.
Let it alone, my state now will but mock me.
I sell thee poison, thou hast sold me none.
Why do you speak so startingly and rash?
For, daughter, so you are,--here take your place:
Why, do 'e take it, and the gods give thee good on't!
Let shame come when it will, I do not call it:
Fare you well, gentlemen.
If I want gold, steal but a beggar's dog,
Not a whit: I have a device to make all well.
happiness, that remains loyal to his vow, and your,
That had not God, for some strong purpose, steel'd
If the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating
But get you to Smithfield, and gather head,
Mark him and write his speeches in their books,
That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds,
He question'd me, amongst the rest, demanded
'Twere best he did.
Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of
From out the fiery portal of the east,
Groan! why, no.
Exit
strikes one.
I' faith, he'll have a lusty widow now,
God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
Here, here, here he comes.
My conscience tells me he is lawful king.
Shall touch the people--which time shall not want,
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
Let's make us medicines of our great revenge,
I know you all, and will awhile uphold
stand for his place. He received in the repulse of
And now declare, sweet stem from York's great stock,
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
Wherein my death might yield her any profit,
And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove,
Then comes the time, who lives to see't,
When he shall miss me,--as, in faith, I mean not
Let me make answer, thy usurping son.
[Aside to NORFOLK]          I another.
My Lord Sands,
Bloody instructions, which, being taught, return
My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick
A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
That likewise have we thought upon, and thus:
That had befall'n us. As we paced along
Set on your foot,
Submits her to thy might, and of thee craves
One word, sweet queen:
If it be sin to say so, I yoke me
shall lose all the sight.
Enter AARON
Which I have open'd to his grace at large,
Three thousand ducats, due unto the Jew,
Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice,
SCENE III. The same. A hall of state: a banquet prepared.
O, when, I say, I look'd on Richard's face,
your house.' He could be contented: why is he not,
I fear it is: and yet, methinks, it should not,
If I achieve not this young modest girl.
Than where swine feed!
That's I, an't like your grace:
My country's high pyramides my gibbet,
My heart is not confederate with my hand.
Exit
virginity was first lost. That you were made of is
Caesar, having made use of him in the wars 'gainst
This speech of yours hath moved me,
My lord, I dare not: Sir Pierce of Exton, who
He will stay till ye come.
Enter a rabble of Citizens (Plebeians), with the AEdiles
Must lie and fester.
I must needs say you have a little fault:
And every godfather can give a name.
Do you love me, master? no?
Is held no great good lover of the archbishop's,
Has broken a staff or so, so let it pass.
Our paragon to all reports thus blasted,
When most struck home, being gentle wounded, craves
And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed
'Tis like a coffin, sir.
O Signieur Dew, thou diest on point of fox,
For heaven now bids me, and the words I utter
To wreak the love I bore my cousin
I' the market-place, on a tribunal silver'd,
Where my stomach finds meat, or, rather, where I eat
Much marked of the melancholy Jaques,
These be the Christian husbands. I have a daughter,
And bid me be advised how I tread.
Were very pregnant and potential spurs
Pandarus,--
If ancient sorrow be most reverend,
[Reads]  'Imprimis, a loose-bodied gown:'
My Lord Pandarus,--
To change two dukedoms for a duke's fair daughter.
Here lies our way.
Mistress Ford, by my troth, you are very well met:
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
That covenants may be kept on either hand.
Almost as like as eggs, women say so,
scarce, it will not in circumvention deliver a fly
Will bear the knave by the volume. The honour'd gods
Thy huntress' name that my full life doth sway.
Hastings, and Edward's children, Rivers, Grey,
certain: 'tis dangerous to take a cold, to sleep, to
You have the honey still, but these the gall,
Exit
'Sblood, I would my face were in your belly!
Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst
[Aside]  No, but he fled forward still, toward your face.
majesty is take out of the helmet of Alencon.
If so, then be not tongue-tied: go with me.
Let me see, let me see, is not the leaf turn'd down
For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help,
Nay, let's follow him.
The sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse,--
I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind,
Enter POSTHUMUS, with a bloody handkerchief
Did to his majesty, his mother and his lady
There is more difference between thy flesh and hers
Come, gentlemen, ye shall go my way, which
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
Joy'd are we that you are.
Besides, we'll cut the throats of those we have,
And sometimes we are devils to ourselves,
And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies:
She may, Lord Rivers! why, who knows not so?
What halloing and what stir is this to-day?
The knee before him, and returns in peace
Of Charles his father.
With other muniments and petty helps
And give it Timon, why, the dog coins gold.
prince his master will be here to-night.
challenger's youth I would fain dissuade him, but he
London road for fleas: I am stung like a tench.
But that my master is abused:
Go cheerfully together and digest.
a Peg-a-Ramsey, and 'Three merry men be we.' Am not
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause
Feeds beast as man: the nobleness of life
in honour come off again.
With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
The better arm you to the sudden time,
Bring you the maid, you shall not lack a priest.
Some vanity of mine art: it is my promise,
Like Amazons come tripping after drums,
Exit
You shall yourself read in the bitter letter
She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
The devil fiddle 'em! I am glad they are going,
This but begins the woe, others must end.
From Troy.
SCENE II. Another room in the castle.
ANTIPHOLUS
Whiles yet the dew's on ground, gather those flowers,
Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules,
shillings and sixpence' and 'You are welcome,' with
But were you banish'd for so small a fault?
Adieu.
Wherefore eyest him so?
Is counted lost for ever, Perdita,
Snakes, in my heart-blood warm'd, that sting my heart!
The worser that you give me the addition
Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in 's tunes.
It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks,
BISHOP
There's for thy pains.
Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
Will't please you taste of what is here?
Well, madam.
And, as she fled, her mantle she did fall,
Keep in that mind, I'll deserve it.
He is a good one, and his worthiness
How near the tidings of our comfort is.
As knots, by the conflux of meeting sap,
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Fetch me a better answer.
That I must bear a part.
To keep your earthly audit: sure, in that
I fear, for ever: Milan and Naples have
If thou beest Trinculo, come forth: I'll pull thee
Even to the court, the heart, to the seat o' the brain,
I will forget that Julia is alive,
Do use you for my fool and chat with you,
Exit
This little one shall make it holiday.
Limp'd in pure love: till he be first sufficed,
Go bid thy master well advise himself:
quart pot to drink in, and now the word 'sallet'
And could not get him for my heart to do it.
And then to Calais, and to England then:
But, God he knows, thy share thereof is small:
Let every man be master of his time
Just of his colour. What if we do omit
I am possess'd with an adulterate blot,
Let me have it,
And his opinion: now I change my mind,
Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so.
Come, bring forth the prisoners.
I am a soldier and now bound to France.
When you caught hurt in parting two that fought:
I have persuaded him the youth's a devil.
Then speak the truth by her, if not divine,
Modest as morning when she coldly eyes
Then know, that from my soul I love thy daughter.
And nature, as it grows again toward earth,
the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the
Reignier, her father, to the king of France
He is not with himself, let us withdraw.
To lead their business: in which regard,
[Aside]  The devil speaks in him.
I could have better spared a better man:
That thou wilt never render to me more!
Will come when it will come.
That Margaret your queen and my son Edward
Sit, Coriolanus, never shame to hear
I, madam? no, I have no reason for it,
There is so hot a summer in my bosom,
a fig for Peter!
Hath heard your praises, and this night he means
CURIO and Attendants retire
Can it not do and undo? I will make
For know, my love, as easy mayest thou fall
I' the shoulder and i' the left arm there will be
By holy Paul, they love his grace but lightly
My father, and a king.
Of Mantua.
For none, neither.
Good madam, be not angry with the child.
My chamber-councils, wherein, priest-like, thou
Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims,
To have a worthy feeding: but I have it
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
How now, fellow! would'st anything with me?
I am an ass, indeed, you may prove it by my long
The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor,
Take on himself the sovereignty thereof:
And call'd them blind and dusky spectacles,
My credit now stands on such slippery ground,
You are welcome, sir.
Enter a Knight, he passes over, and his Squire presents his shield to the Princess
cudgels. God b' wi' you, and keep you, and heal your pate.
To his unmaster'd importunity.
Exeunt
From which awaked, the truth of what we are
That highly may advantage thee to hear:
Good my lord,
Come hither, herald,--Let the trumpet sound,
Then never man was true.
laud them, I praise them.
ANTONIO: Let me yet know of you whither you are bound.
My name is Thyreus.
What, wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard?
Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
The better that it pleases your good worship to ask.
They sit
Lucius!
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, BALTHASAR, DON JOHN, BORACHIO, MARGARET, URSULA and others, masked
Write up his title with usurping blood.
They have left their viands behind, for we have stomachs.
Come, side by side together live and die.
Yea, my lord, but I can cross it.
The warlike service he has done, consider, think
And in our sports my better cunning faints
No, not a man comes for redress of thee,
I'll follow, sir. But first, an't please the gods,
A Bohemian born, but here nursed un and bred, one
Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle,
Therefore I will be sudden and dispatch.
know than comes from her demand out of the letter.
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
Some airy devil hovers in the sky
Although by his sight his sin be multiplied.
What other
To what effect?
In good troth, it begins so.
To be a torment to mine enemies?
house the hour she appointed me.
That would I learn of you,
From thine own sister's shame? What should I think?
We are for law: he dies, urge it no more,
Think, we had mothers, do not give advantage
Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, and
Brave death by speaking, whether he will or no,
Than when I first my wedded mistress saw
Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-apparell'd.
Dear sovereign, hear me speak.
Good sir, speak it to us.
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
You give away myself, which is known mine,
I' the bottom of a cowslip: here's a voucher,
Thou, nor thy nobles, to the crown of England.
And in the last repeating troublesome,
Being all this time abandon'd from your bed.
All comfort, joy, in this most gracious lady,
The triumph of his pledge.
Under the hoofs of vaunting enemies,
So humbly take my leave.
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
I Pompey am, Pompey surnamed the Big--
Stir up their servants to an act of rage,
Let's, mock them still, as well known as disguised:
Nay, I know not:
Sweet Pandarus,--
are they gone, and there they intend to sup.
But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
Fool, of thyself speak well: fool, do not flatter.
In aught he merit not.
such a place,' some swearing, some crying for a
That were you, Antony, the son of Caesar,
That will the king severely prosecute
See me no more, whether he be dead or no.
The summer still doth tend upon my state,
For your displeasure, but all will sure be well.
drop and liquor fishermen's boots with me, I warrant
scour, dress meat and drink, make the beds and do
Are you his brother?
Enter ROSALIND
Madam, to you as many and as good:
Wit, an't be thy will, put me into good fooling!
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
Labeo and Flavius, set our battles on:
And travelling along this coast, I here am come by chance,
Here are letters for you.
May plod it in a week, why may not I
rather be such a man as Troilus than Agamemnon and
Exit
We see yonder the beginning of the day, but I think
What do you say, Cesario? Good my lord,--
Moy shall not serve, I will have forty moys,
Be known when 'tis brought forth.
They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in
Be those the garments?
ACT II
gentle a condition!
come a little nearer this ways.
No woman may approach his silent court:
She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks
here, sir, a man of four-score pound a year, whose
Mistress, we have.
SCENE V. Juliet's chamber.
Nay, then I cannot blame his cousin king,
We wish your peace.
Put on what weary negligence you please,
Will so your accusation overweigh,
Have aught committed that is hardly borne
With this regard their currents turn awry,
Under whose conduct came those powers of France
Beats him away. Exit third Servingman
DON
And here is not a creature but myself,
I was confederate with the Romans: so
Why, thou must be thyself.
'Bring action hither, this cannot go to war:
To arms invasive? shall a beardless boy,
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
And, for they cannot, die in their own pride.
He has some reason, else he could not beg.
My horse to yours, no.
To deal with grief alone.
He says so, Tranio.
Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt!
Go to, I'll make ye know your times of business:
Gave hope thou wast in being, have preserved
Give him leave, madam, he is a kind of chameleon.
They mean to warn us at Philippi here,
His silence will sit drooping.
the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall
For the which, with songs of woe,
These Kentish rebels would be soon appeased!
Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from
Some food we had and some fresh water that
And, had I first been put to speak my mind,
Herald, away, and throughout every town
Slander myself as false to Edward's bed,
That answer to them: would you in their serving,
sounds to themselves. Why, I have often wished
serviteur, excusez-moi, je vous supplie, mon
What, what, what!
A fearful eye thou hast: where is that blood
Must it be so? it must not be. My lords,
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
Lead, lead.
too, though, in the mean time, some necessary
Yes, it doth shine that night.
Now are we well prepared to know the pleasure
That dwell in every region of his face,
Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers, revenges, hers,
Hence, then, and thank
We'll take your offer kindly.
Melt and lament for her.
If you did know to whom I gave the ring,
Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the
For where thou art, there is the world itself,
Aside
And reason too:
In him there is a hope of government,
i' the world.
Dry up thy marrows, vines, and plough-torn leas,
Enter Haberdasher
I yet beseech your majesty,--
Veiling an Indian beauty, in a word,
Than was that young and princely gentleman.
Perchance I will be there as soon as you.
Well, I will for refuge straight to Bristol castle:
that she would have followed her exile, or have died
with comforts,
This tablet lay upon his breast, wherein
What cause, do you think, I have to swoon?
That your free undertaking cannot miss
There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
Well run, Thisbe.
Thou diest within this hour.
where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
Release my brother, and, after much debatement,
Exit
That ever lived.
lads in Eastcheap. They call drinking deep, dyeing
How now, Sir Proteus, are you crept before us?
Fear no more the lightning flash,
cuckold. Come to me soon at night.
Not so sick, my lord,
All liberal reason I will yield unto.
Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and
Exeunt
To come into his presence.
The trumpets sound. Enter the young PRINCE EDWARD, GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM, CARDINAL, CATESBY, and others
I say they shall not come.
One.
fear who knows it, when none can call our power to
Pause awhile,
married man more honourable than the bare brow of a
Whether I in any just term am affined
Thy father was a traitor to the crown.
SCENE III. A field of battle between Towton and Saxton, in
To sin in loving virtue: never could the strumpet,
She will attend it better in thy youth
O, farewell, honest soldier:
Hark! I hear horses.
When thou didst hate him worst, thou lovedst him better
And fill'd with honour, to my kingly guest
My Lord of Warwick, and my brother Gloucester,
To sit about the coronation.
brother are hard by, with the king's forces.
And thank you too, for society, saith the text, is
duke's time, he promised her marriage: his child
Where nothing lives but crosses, cares and grief.
QUEEN KATHARINE makes no answer, rises out of her  chair, goes about the court, comes to KING HENRY VIII, and kneels at his feet, then speaks
[Aside]  So would I, till you had measured how long
My Wolsey, see it furnish'd. O, my lord,
have possessed her.
Demuring upon me. But come, come, Antony,--
So doth the swan her downy cygnets save,
Here Goths have given me leave to sheathe my sword.
Do not swear, and eat it.
Shall be so ever.
Which is the lady I must seize upon?
It doth import him much to speak with me.
these four Worthies in their first show thrive,
Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war,
he would put us two. I had rather be a giantess,
And to his honour and his valiant parts
Of their observant toil the enemies' weight,--
set this counterfeit.
Well-a-day that you were, sir
That hadst a wife once call'd AEmilia
To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights
If I chance to talk a little wild, forgive me,
What, ho! chamberlain!
Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
Whom for this time we pardon. We enjoin thee,
and heard, but faintly, nothing like the image
Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Discovering himself
Our arms, in strength of malice, and our hearts
She's dead, deceased, she's dead, alack the day!
[Aside]	Praise in departing.
Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch?
You rogue, I have been drinking all night, I am not
What's to do here, Thomas tapster? let's withdraw.
To hovel thee with swine, and rogues forlorn,
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
art not thou horrible afeard? thou being
Deal between thee and me! for even now
And once dispatch'd him in an embassy
That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear,
Stabs him
Whether your grace be worthy, yea or no,
Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club,
there, and yet it will no more but abide.
ACT I
A man is well holp up that trusts to you:
And he that sleeps here swims.
If we do meet again, we'll smile indeed,
Like valour's minion carved out his passage
course, where, if you violently proceed against
And let go by the actor.
belied a lady, thirdly, they have verified unjust
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
that writ it had played Pyramus and hanged himself
Would I were fairly out on't!
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
'Twixt sky and ground. Wilt thou hear more, my lord?
Enter two Soldiers to their guard
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Both her sweet hands, her tongue, and that more dear
It was your pleasure and your own remorse:
Than keep a corner in the thing I love
The next ensuing hour some foul mischance
Tranio is changed into Lucentio.
Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts
As I perceive she does: there's something in't
As well descended as thyself, and hath
was. I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of
Opinion that so sticks on Marcius shall
God bless you, Captain Parolles.
If I could shake off but one seven years
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
I never kill'd a mouse, nor hurt a fly:
His pardon for return.
Therefore delay not, give thy hand to Warwick,
When I have spoke of you dispraisingly,
You shall be king.
Enter SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE
ANTIPHOLUS
To save this bastard's life,--for 'tis a bastard,
Take heed, ere summer comes or cuckoo-birds do sing.
And all of them that thus dishonour her.
The drum begins to march
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
O, let us yet be merciful.
Which honour and allegiance cannot think.
Exit GLOUCESTER
Exeunt WORCESTER and VERNON
No, my chuck. Eros, come, mine armour, Eros!
So, this was well ask'd,'twas so well perform'd.
Know him in us, that here hold up his right.
shall be as it may. I dare not fight, but I will
Malice ne'er meant: our breach of duty this way
Obedience fail in children! slaves and fools,
What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now,
If heaven would make me such another world
Thy comforts can do me no good at all,
Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.
requesting your lordship to supply his instant use
wives be as free as heart can wish or tongue can tell.
Kneel thou down Philip, but rise more great,
The mother to a hopeful prince, here standing
'Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves,
Well, my lord.
O worthy Goth, this is the incarnate devil
Seven times tried that judgment is,
O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!
I prithee,
Why should I think you can be mine and true,
And tell me, then, have you not broke your oaths?
Than what you should, made you against the grain
Among the crowd i' the Abbey, where a finger
A spider steep'd, and one may drink, depart,
What do you pity, sir?
Say, I will love her everlastingly.
base, proud, shallow, beggarly, three-suited,
Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love
Intending deep suspicion: ghastly looks
Where's the Prince Dauphin? I have news for him.
Amongst a grove, the very straightest plant,
Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them
Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
I wonder, doctor,
Great nature, like his ancestry,
Exeunt Lords
shall see how I'll handle her.
to-morrow to hunt with him, and has sent your honour
Shall to my flaming wrath be oil and flax.
She lacks instructions, for she seems a mistress
Is now converted: but now I was the lord
And passion in the gods.'
Promises Britain peace and plenty.
Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he!
By day, by night, waking and in my dreams,
France, Kate: but, in loving me, you should love
His banners sable, trimm'd with rich expense,
What, resists he? Help him, Lucio.
keep it in. I heard you were saucy at my gates,
Musing and sighing, with your arms across,
Marry, your manhood now--
And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep,
Why?
Ay, good my lord. Why should you say Cressida? no,
So said, so done, is well.
Study knows that which yet it doth not know:
funeral: well, here's my comfort.
Were for myself: and so, my lord, adieu.
But we keep whole by land. This speed of Caesar's
No!
Heaven comfort her!
I thank you, sir. Where then do you know best
As you are now, for you are cold and stem,
Then God forgive the sin of all those souls
They fight
Give thee thy hire and send thy soul to hell,
With miry slime left on them by a flood?
Whilst ours was blurted at and held a malkin
Well, how then? come, roundly, roundly.
Well, then, I am the shooter.
And, by all likelihood, some cheer is toward.
For strokes received, and many blows repaid,
It cannot be avoided but by this,
Enter JULIET
ANTIPHOLUS
and hasty, like a Scotch jig, and full as
If not, I'll use the advantage of my power
And each particular hair to stand on end,
With whom the Kentishmen will willingly rise:
You wait on nature's mischief! Come, thick night,
To furnish me with some swift means of death
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
And now and then an ample tear trill'd down
In restless ecstasy. Duncan is in his grave,
And all-to topple: pure surprise and fear
yet his brother is reputed one of the best that is:
No.
Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
Labouring for nine.
Dear lady daughter, peace! Sweet sovereign,
Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
Nobody come? then shall I bleed to death.
Naught, naught all, naught! I can behold no longer:
Look for no less than death.
Our master and mistress seeks you, come, away, away!
If thou speak'st false,
And that set together is noddy.
Reads
I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
Wherein we step after a stranger march
What's that, I pray?
And let it be mine honour, good my lord,
Know, thou sad man, I am not Tamora,
You may not come, fair princess, in my gates,
That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
Tyrrel, I mean those bastards in the Tower.
But for his own, and for the right of that
And the protector's wife, beloved of him?
What news? how does pretty Mistress Anne?
Leonine, take her by the arm, walk with her.
For Rome, towards Marcius.
And this it was, for other means was none:
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
This comfort with the like! But I have words
Willing to leave their burthen. Reach a chair:
not in the lineaments of Nature.
sailing by the star.
As to advance this jewel, accept it and wear it,
The wronged heirs of York do pray for thee
For all the frosty nights that I have watch'd,
I rest much bounden to you: fare you well.
To give it from me.
That sought to be encompass'd with your crown:
That to the observer doth thy history
The trumpets show the emperor is at hand.
I humbly beseech you, sir, to pardon me all the
Keeps place with thought and almost, like the gods,
Peace! I will stop your mouth.
But say, again, how many saw the child?
My noble steed, known to the camp, I give him,
It were a shame to let this land by lease,
And I proclaim'd a coward through the world!
Her virtues graced with external gifts
Driving them forward
I'll keep shut: now, of another thing she may, and
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love,
What though I kill'd her husband and her father?
Why, sir, who bade you call her?
Sound trumpets! let our bloody colours wave!
'Tis, then, because thou dost not keep a dog,
And tell 's a tale.
I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
must die. Come, headsman, off with his head.
Hence, heap of wrath, foul indigested lump,
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth,
And in the stocks avouch it.
The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,
With such a number. What, must I come to you
O, no, you shall not go.
In the cauldron boil and bake,
For women's fear and love holds quantity,
Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
this courteous office, as to know of the knight what
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
'Small herbs have grace, great weeds do grow apace:'
Exit
Alarums: excursions. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, PRINCE EDWARD, and EXETER
How, my lord!
Provided that you do no outrages
The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head
Perchance you will not bear them patiently.
Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind,
I'll be supposed upon a book, his face is the worst
Or whether he be 'scaped away or no
As great Sicilius' heir.
We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice
prune, nor no more truth in thee than in a drawn
Re-enter SALISBURY
I saw the handkerchief.
Run to the Capitol, and nothing else?
If he dislike it, let him to our sister,
He will be found a dangerous protector.
But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway.
Away before me to sweet beds of flowers:
That gave't surmised shape. Why then, you princes,
The lean and wrinkled Cassius, and 'twas I
A trade, sir, that, I hope, I may use with a safe
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
Nature in you stands on the very verge
Who, with their drowsy, slow and flagging wings,
A royal battle might be won and lost
You'll mar all:
not see Pompey is uncasing for the combat? What mean
Why do you make us love your goodly gifts,
Master's-Mate	And so much shall you give, or off goes yours.
And these and all are all amiss employ'd.
But men may construe things after their fashion,
Which God defend that I should wring from him!
him for his fault the other day, he did vow upon his
Who does infect her?
They, that they cannot help: how shall they credit
Achilles will not to the field to-morrow.
O here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an
Enter ROSS and ANGUS
But mine is all as hungry as the sea,
O, I beseech you, pardon me, my lord, in that.
A dog of that house shall move me to stand: I will
Exit
Stood smiling to behold his lion's whelp
My lord!
Enough to stifle such a villain up.
Good Rapine, stab him, he's a ravisher.
That you depart and lay no hands on me
Where you may abide till your date expire.
Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves: to
I am glad I am so acquit of this tinderbox: his
I go, sir.
As strange unto your town as to your talk,
That one body should be fill'd
What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?
Than I dare blame my weakness: will you see her
And let not search and inquisition quail
I have said.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands,
That spits forth death and mountains, rocks and seas,
Ourselves well sinewed to our defence.
How is the man esteemed here in the city?
Five men to twenty! though the odds be great,
They may break his foaming courser's back,
Thou hast no faith left now, unless thou'dst two,
give you good rest!'
That I may dew it with my mournful tears,
Brings in the champion Honour on my part,
Of all the gentry, for the most part such
That hath aspired to Solon's happiness
A frank one.
By Dromio, but I think he brought it not.
Of what quality was your love, then?
Myself, as far as I could well discern
Bid ye so far forget yourselves? I gave ye
To wrong'd Othello's service! Let him command,
And all the gods go with you! upon your sword
And wherefore crave you combat? or with whom?
me to the coming on of time, with 'Hail, king that
We make woe wanton with this fond delay:
Speaking lower
Of Mantua, sir? marry, God forbid!
And when I rear my hand, do you the like,
comfit-maker's wife. 'Not you, in good sooth,' and
As many farewells as be stars in heaven,
Consumptions sow
Whispers
Shall we tell our husbands how we have served him?
When she did think my master loved her well,
By him not ruin'd? then is he the ground
the princess my sister called my father father, and
Unto the wished haven of my bliss.
Has desperate want made!
Thy grave-stone daily: make thine epitaph,
The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber, Bretagne and Alencon,
SCENE VI. Antium. A public place.
isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello!
A pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham,
Where hearing should not latch them.
prithee, be gone.
Didst thou not mark the king, what words he spake,
Such as befits the pleasure of the court?
To those whose dealings have deserved the place,
To shoot another arrow that self way
[Within]  Nor to-day here you must not, come again
is sometime afeared she will do a desperate outrage
That is done too, sir, only 'cover' is the word.
Good masters, harm me not:
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults,
First let me talk with this philosopher.
His kingly hands, haling ropes,
And the particular accidents gone by
As one near death to those that wish him live:
They'll open of themselves.
Enter LEONTES, Lords, and Officers
With all graces wide-enlarged:
Your gracious self, embrace but my direction:
arras, and there heard it agreed upon that the
O, help, ho! light! a surgeon!
Must ask my child forgiveness!
SCENE III. Before the castle.
blindness! I am sure hanging's the way of winking.
How have I been behaved, that he might stick
And mine, a hundred and forty.
And ever will--though he do shake me off
Have you perused the letters from the pope,
That is a good William. What is he, William, that
No, not to be so odd and from all fashions
I grant, as there may between the lists and the
We may digest our complots in some form.
[To POLONIUS]  God save you, sir!
Saw sighs reek from you, noted well your passion:
him for me, he's more and more a cat.
But he that disciplined thy arms to fight,
and eat, I swear--
Up to his pleasure, ransomless and free:
known to Desdemona: if she will return me my
richly adorned with pearl, crowned. On each
The weight of this sad time we must obey,
Why doth the great Duke Humphrey knit his brows,
Where is thy head? where's that? Ay me!
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
so doth the hound his master, the ape his keeper,
The rest shall bear this burden
That rage in savage sensuality.
And so it shall be so for Katharina.
You are the fount that makes small brooks to flow:
Write down thy mind, bewray thy meaning so,
But they did say their prayers, and address'd them
Then must my earth with her continual tears
'Pless you from his mercy sake, all of you!
Mine, sir.
And, in the hearing of these many friends,
Because thou see'st me dote upon my love.
But yet hear this: mistake me not, no life,
Knocks
Asses are made to bear, and so are you.
mocked me before: but come your ways.
I will make my very house reel tonight: a letter for
If charnel-houses and our graves must send
And though you know my inwardness and love
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
He still hath held them, that to's power he would
As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites,
Not till after midnight, for he is dieted to his hour.
Whoever gave it you. Then, if you know
Even she.
He is dead and gone,
Degrees in schools and brotherhoods in cities,
Aside
And like a civil war set'st oath to oath,
And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,
That changeth thus his manners.
Shall enter me with him.
It is not that that hath incensed the duke:
There's nothing can be minister'd to nature
you have courage to maintain it: I am bound to call
Did hear a challenge urged more modestly,
The dibble in earth to set one slip of them,
Come, cousin, let us tell the queen these news.
Good meat, sir, is common, that every churl affords.
Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou
I thank your ladyship, well, good madam.
And quench'd the stelled fires:
Enter VINCENTIO
Who ever knew the heavens menace so?
But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
And for Mark Antony, think not of him,
O, that which I would hide from heaven's eye,
Stay there, sir,
And suck'd my verdure out on't. Thou attend'st not.
What, quite unmann'd in folly?
how say you?
That, to pay grief, must of poor patience borrow.
Good my lord, hear me.
Angelo, came not to an undoubtful proof.
Has these poor men in question. Never saw I
had rather have it a head: an you use these blows
Let's speak To him.
With an augmented greeting.
mail, sir: O, sir, plantain, a plain plantain! no
Should pass this way as you did: O, the Fates!
before ever he saw those pancakes or that mustard.
Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray,
Now I see
Say, she shall be a high and mighty queen.
To FERDINAND
No further harm.
embraces his son-in-law, then again worries he his
Than drops of blood were in my father's veins.
Whom with all praise I point at, saw him fight,
Go, rate thy minions, proud insulting boy!
up watch, or play with my--some rich jewel. Toby
I must not hear thee, fare thee well, kind maid,
But your discretions better can persuade
Let me have open means to come to them,
And that it was great pity, so it was,
KENT is set at liberty
prince, no, fie!
Can advise me like you: be to yourself
To leave no rubs nor botches in the work--
Enter CATESBY
The senators with one consent of love
north, Percy, and he of Wales, that gave Amamon the
Sir, March is wasted fourteen days.
I'll to the Duke of Suffolk presently.
Ay, sir.
You would have married her most shamefully,
In our dear peril.
her to try with main-course.
'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow
these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these
Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves!
This fever, that hath troubled me so long,
The letter is too long by half a mile.
See, and then speak yourselves.
Anon, Francis? No, Francis, but to-morrow, Francis,
these princely suitors that are already come?
How I shall take her from her father's house,
of his will.
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
Sings
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
You soothed not, therefore hurt not: but
This is that face, thou cruel Angelo,
A slave without a knock.
The which he loved passing well.'
But more devout than this in our respects
Isidore's Servant	A plague upon him, dog!
On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
Madam, he's gone to serve the duke of Florence:
Worthy the note.
Alas, poor fool, how have they baffled thee!
Poor rogues, I pray you, say.
Whereof take you one quarter into France,
The love of wicked men converts to fear,
To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company,
Drown the lamenting fool in sea-salt tears.
Thank you. Wondrous heavy.
Why, sir, you know no house nor no such maid,
What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
Ah, thou shalt find us ready for thee still,
And with your speediest bring us what she says,
With keels of every kind: many hot inroads
to find myself fobbed in it.
Aside to them
compound of villanous smell that ever offended nostril.
You smile and mock me, as if I meant naughtily.
Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
Not so, neither:
Come on, strike up!
To lead 'em once again, and then let's dream
To CATESBY
But when we in our viciousness grow hard--
You are no maiden, but a monument:
Speaks to atone you.
O sweet Maria, empress of my love!
Myrmidons are no bottle-ale houses.
How does your fallow greyhound, sir? I heard say he
Had quite miscarried: I dare be bound again,
Leave off delays, and let us raise the siege.
But there are other strict observances,
That you will be more mild and tractable.
The ruin of the state.
with a wench.
How do you, sir? Stand you not so amazed:
I will assume desert. Give me a key for this,
Be sad, as we would make ye: think ye see
Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine
Thy head, thy sovereign, one that cares for thee,
and a man that I love and honour with my soul, and my
Varro's
How doth the lady?
The king is now in progress towards Saint Alban's,
for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on
Yet I have a trick
The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted
To Lydia and to Ionia, Whilst--
My everlasting doom of banishment.
O, rare for Antony!
With opening titles miscreate, whose right
Of that we hold an idol more than he?
O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow
He would have well becomed this place, and graced
Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
I  would 'twere bed-time, Hal, and all well.
'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.
I am angling now,
Bless you, fair shrew.
And wound our tattering colours clearly up,
Peace your tattlings! What is 'fair,' William?
That grows to seed, things rank and gross in nature
Yes, you have seen Cassio and she together.
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
So great weight in his lightness. If he fill'd
I am an officer of state, and come
'Tis best to give him way, he leads himself.
Strange lingering poisons: I do know her spirit,
Nothing certainer:
I honour'd him, I loved him, and will weep
neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.
That, being unseminar'd, thy freer thoughts
Even just the sum that I do owe to you
And I, delivering you, am satisfied
Ha, ha, ha! So, you're paid.
Where mine his thoughts did kindle,--that our stars,
Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero?
My honest lads, I will tell you what I am about.
The truest manner'd, such a holy witch
You precious winners all, your exultation
Wast you he rescued?
wishes:'--her very phrases! By your leave, wax.
Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound
See Brutus at his house: three parts of him
Do't! he will do't, for, look you, sir, he has as
Nor great Alcides, nor the god of war,
Enter AUFIDIUS and his Lieutenant
Be gone, I say, for, till you do return,
A special party, have, by common voice,
No matter who's displeased when you are gone:
For being not mad but sensible of grief,
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Exeunt
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
First pay me for the nursing of thy sons,
Do not chafe thee, cousin:
Well worth the seeing.
Of warlike Lucius, and appoint the meeting
'Tis gone.
I would have salved it with a longer treatise.
Hath it been owed and worn. This is his wife,
Let's have one other gaudy night: call to me
O God, what mischiefs work the wicked ones,
This day all quarrels die, Andronicus,
SCENE IV. A room in LEONATO'S house.
The Jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones and all,
'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life, you coin'd it:
hunts, but one that fills up the cry. My money is
may call beasts.
let that appear when there is no need of such
We came again to bind them. Then they fled
Well. I will do it, though I take thee in the
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
And only that I stand for. I appeal
Sad true lover never find my grave,
My liege, I'll knock once more to summon them.
fellows' counsels and your own, and good night.
But that you have your father's bosom there
I come to thee for charitable licence,
Well said, old mocker: I must needs be friends
The Third Knight passes over
Enter PANDARUS and CRESSIDA
O, here is
I ne'er might say before. When I came back--
Nay, whom they shall obey, and love thee too,
A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul
And tugg'd for life and was by strength subdued:
No, nothing but ourselves.
hate the Moor: my cause is hearted, thine hath no
While we return these dukes what we decree.
What,
How now! who has put in?
What, are they broken?
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed,
Did share it.
Shall e'er divorce my dignities.
Consisteth of all nations. Therefore, go:
Bid me farewell, and smile. I pray you, come.
Come, come, my lords,
Of one sore I an hundred make by adding but one more L.
My young remembrance cannot parallel
I think so. Kill'd!
SCENE I. Tarsus. An open place near the sea-shore.
thought not good to bruise an injury till it were
The strongest nerves and small inferior veins
That the magnifico is much beloved,
Nay, my troth, I know not: but I know, to be up
their hands, let thy blood and spirit embrace them,
With all my heart.
But, I protest, he had the chain of me,
All, away!
This was her first remembrance from the Moor:
Keep comfort to you, and this morning see
Of what coarse metal ye are moulded, envy:
Have I, Malvolio? no.
We honour you with trouble: but we came
Not I, I assure thee: setting the attractions of my
by his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by
attends your ladyship's pleasure.
A thing more made of malice than of duty:
That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,
Thy life hath had some smatch of honour in it:
Nay, that follows not.
My soul and body on the action both!
More harder than the stones whereof 'tis raised,
That mend upon the world.
Is that she is intolerable curst
And long live Henry, fourth of that name!
That sings heaven's praise with such an earthly tongue.
Enter EDMUND, with a letter
Exit Chamberlain
Sir, I am a gentleman that have spent much, my name is Brook.
To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart
end of our show.
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
What I can show in this.
than to be beadle. But, master, I'll go draw up the
Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet,
By Caius Marcius Coriolanus, whom
And your lips too, for I am well assured
Exit
And now I cloy me with beholding it.
Ill d eeds are doubled with an evil word.
To Lynn, my lord,
Hate counsels not in such a quality.
My daughter shall be Henry's, if he please.
To answer us.
'Hang-hog' is Latin for bacon, I warrant you.
My lord, I did intend it.
But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
Ha, ha! what sayest thou?
Peaseblossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed!
Wise.
Which pierces so that it assaults
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
Gallus, go you along.
Therefore at last I firmly am resolved
I shall devise something: but, I pray you, commend
of visitors.
Against my very heart. Poor souls, they perish'd.
you tell me whether one Launcelot,
Farewell, thou woful welcomer of glory!
Why, then, your brown bastard is your only drink,
I should love thee but as a property.
mighty business in hand.
With your stiff age: but unto us it is
Lions more confident, mountains and rocks
To your remembrances: but you have found,
In truth, I know it is a sin to be a mocker: but,
Whose honour and whose honesty till now
Madam, it will not lie where it concerns
That's for advantage.
Let it be forbid, sir, so should I be a great deal
Mark you but that!
Re-enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and TRANIO
Enter MARGARELON
Why, sweet Othello,--
If death be so apparent, then both fly.
The villain is much lighter-heel'd than I:
What mean you, madam? I have made no fault.
Art thou a churchman?
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
Lofty and sour to them that loved him not,
Before I freely speak my mind herein,
Who, if it had conceit, would die, as I
That drug-damn'd Italy hath out-craftied him,
That Henry born at Monmouth should win all
For your good host, pray that the right may thrive:
house is turned upside down since Robin Ostler died.
Untimely ripp'd.
And mine shall ring thy dire departure out.
Hath left me gaged. To you, Antonio,
A right good husband, let him be a noble
Then, grandam, you conclude that he is dead.
England ne'er lost a king of so much worth.
And certain stars shot madly from their spheres,
Each jealous of the other, as the stung
O, burn her, burn her! hanging is too good.
For when would you, my liege, or you, or you,
Good night, sweet lord Menelaus.
That to my home I will no more return,
His lordship knows me well, and loves me well.
Be as a planetary plague, when Jove
Commend me to one Hubert with your king:
head, you would eat chickens i' the shell.
To be hanged.
Exit
Ventidius lately
But that it bear this trial and last love,
Thou art a fool: if Echo were as fleet,
Makes speed to catch the tiger, bootless speed,
Flying for succor to his servant Banister,
I will, when you are humble, nay, before,
Where were you born, friend?
SCENE I. Orchard of Oliver's house.
I was about to tell thee:--when my heart,
But gather we our forces out of hand
Have loved without this mean, if on both parts
Which he was lord of, or whether nature,
Comes fast upon. Good my brother Troilus,
No more that thane of Cawdor shall deceive
This is the hand that stabb'd thy father York,
Brother, we shall. Go, uncle Exeter,
A time, methinks, too short
I'll bear thee hence, and let them fight that will,
Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy
And stood against them, as the hope of Troy
Robs the vast sea: the moon's an arrant thief,
Go to thy lady's grave and call hers thence,
Let Antony look over Caesar's head
These letters at fit time deliver me
Unto my end of stealing them. But, gracious sir,
daughter unto Reignier King of Naples, Sicilia and
Enter PANTHINO
lousy, pragging knave, Pistol, which you and
Crack my clear voice with sobs and break my heart
Therefore with frank and with uncurbed plainness
Which action's self was tongue to. All was royal,
Is now eclipsed, and it portends alone
After all this, how did he bear himself?
Mastiff, grey-hound, mongrel grim,
That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
He held me last night at least nine hours
That horse and sail and high expense
Live scandalized and foully spoken of.
No, by my troth, not long, for we cannot lodge and
draws the horse? Whoop, Jug! I love thee.
Bespake them thus: 'I thank you, countrymen:'
Well said, my lord.
rumination wraps me m a most humorous sadness.
are coming.
Immortal longings in me: now no more
Return in haste, for I do feast to-night
Shall see advantageable for our dignity,
I have yielded to: fresh embassies and suits,
me, so, 'tis a point of friendship.
[To EMILIA]  Some of your function, mistress,
Toad!
Thy father's father wore it,
This dastard, at the battle of Patay,
Sirrah, or you must fight, or else be hang'd.
Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky
How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
The beggar native honour.
That there he dropp'd it for a special purpose
that say so of him. Who are they?
Or not remember what I must be now!
already made thee butter. But tell me, Jack, whose
Read o'er this paper while the glass doth come.
As send precepts to the leviathan
To see him walk before a lady and to bear her fan!
Men, more divine, the masters of all these,
Exit, above
We are to cure such sorrows, not to sow 'em.
Art thou my son?
But, soft you, let me be: pluck up, my heart, and
Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursula
Nay, nay, sweet emperor, we must all be friends:
There tell the king he may inquire us out.
A gentleman.
With rainy marching in the painful field,
In virtue than in vengeance: they being penitent,
Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition
Your shafts of fortune, though they hurt you mortally,
Were it not glory that we more affected
No, Cassio is not kill'd.
Words pay no debts, give her deeds: but she'll
Turning from him
to this paltry knight.
And rattles in their hands: upon a sudden,
'Faith, I ran when I saw others run.
O Caesar, read mine first, for mine's a suit
the moon is never but a month old: and I say beside
To show an unfelt sorrow is an office
My lord, no leave take I, for I will ride,
And though it be allow'd in meaner parties--
And on the gates of Lud's-town set your heads:
But all the story of the night told over,
impossible,--
Is there no remedy?
He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy,
the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
In him that was of late an heretic,
You are rapt, sir, in some work, some dedication
Now, whence come you?
Enter FLAVIUS in a cloak, muffled
hath been seduced by them, and the misery is,
Den it sall also content me.
I pray you, have in mind where we must meet.
Yet AEolus would not be a murderer,
Is the great love the general gender bear him,
And the beholders of this tragic play,
No, good my lord, let's fight with gentle words
And yet are steep'd in favours: so am I,
As sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentle,--
And I have heard, Apollodorus carried--
Then, father Salisbury, kneel we together,
Nero is an angler in the lake of darkness.
Well, sir, this gentleman is come to me,
See, how the pangs of death do make him grin!
Enter PETER
You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace,
That he is march'd to Bourdeaux with his power,
And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
Although the print be little, the whole matter
Nay, come, I prithee, would thou'ldst be ruled by me!
What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl?
And bloody England into England gone,
Exit BARDOLPH
Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica:
Of noisome musty chaff: he said 'twas folly,
Rushing on us, should do your age some mischief.
He is gone, he is gone,
Ay, that would be known. To the wars, my boy, to the wars!
Sirrah, here's a fellow will help you to-morrow in
Excuse me,
Of his own body he was ill, and gave
And that's the mark I know you level at:
This is the hour that Madam Silvia
Destruction fang mankind! Earth, yield me roots!
Save you, Master Doctor Caius!
Can clear me in't.
knave is handsome, young, and hath all those
This punk is one of Cupid's carriers:
My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
had been tabled by his side and I to peruse him by items.
Here is my bed: sleep give thee all his rest!
Well, I do so.
'Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tamed so.
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made,
overfar believe that, yet thus far I will boldly
Received deep scars in France and Normandy?
I shall remember:
To who, my lord? Who hath the office? send
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where some, like magistrates, correct at home,
Mistress of passion, sways it to the mood
The tenor of my book, trust not my age,
His face I know not.
Is it not strange, Canidius,
Your ships are stay'd at Venice, and the duke,
with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
The very train of her worst wearing gown
[Reads]  'So it is, besieged with sable-coloured
Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst,
Wishes and tears, poor fancy's followers.
Drinks
Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man:
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
You have told me too many of him already, sir, if
But shorten thy life one week. And thou, fresh piece
And downright languish'd. Leave me solely: go,
These counties were the keys of Normandy.
His heart as far from fraud as heaven from earth.
look you, and friendly communication, partly to
You of your wife and me of my consent,
This oily rascal is known as well as Paul's. Go,
Would by a good discourser lose some life,
Enter a Messenger
One must prove greatest: while they weigh so even,
Our means will make us means.
Ever since you loved her.
Then though my heart's content firm love doth bear,
Exeunt
glass-gazing, super-serviceable finical rogue,
Full of vexation come I, with complaint
No, faith, not a jot, but to follow him thither with
Yes, lord, her father is a king,
Thisne,' 'Ah, Pyramus, lover dear! thy Thisby dear,
they have been up these two days.
this! Why, my lord of York commends the plot and the
If in which time expired, he not return,
As soon he shall by me, that thus the cardinal
rightful heir to the crown?
Go ask his name: if he be married.
Brought near to beast: my face I'll grime with filth,
So much applauded through the realm of France?
father died at Hallowmas: was't not at Hallowmas,
I come by note, to give and to receive.
We term it 'mulier:' which 'mulier' I divine
fairly last night.
Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother,
To lose his head, condemn'd by Angelo:
Which his own will shall have desire to drink:
Upon the daring huntsman that has gall'd him,
impossible you should take true root but by the
But when I look on her perfections,
Epistrophus and Cedius: Polyxenes is slain,
How long hast thou been blind?
ears grew to his tunes.
What things are these, my lord Antonio?
Take wreak on Rome for this ingratitude,
He's more secure to keep it shut than shown:
SCENE III. The same. A room in SHYLOCK'S house.
No, I protest, I know not the contents:
Why comest thou?
Vat is de clock, Jack?
The Lady Constance speaks not from her faith,
To the utmost of a man, and giddy censure
But that my resolution helps me. Milford,
To do observance to a morn of May,
His name and credit shall you undertake,
He bade me store up, as a triple eye,
I were your son, so you would love me, Hubert.
I am a woeful suitor to your honour,
I said, and said no more but what my thoughts
blame me to piss my tallow? Who comes here? my
Stands without blemish. Next, it imports no reason
Even in the birth of our own labouring breath:
Turn all to the best! These proclamations,
strange fellow, my lord, that so confidently seems
Nothing but my fortune.
Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon,
Alas, he's mad!
'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the tongues:' 'That I
Exeunt
Go to, then.
Not I, believe me: thus I'll visit her.
And had he match'd according to his state,
Shakes all our buds from growing.
I will not eat my word, now thou art mine,
She sings like one immortal, and she dances
To melt the city leads upon your pates,
To load my she with knacks: I would have ransack'd
Enter ANTONIO
him in his own grease. Did you ever hear the like?
And now both rivals, to mock Helena:
I do beg your good will in this case.
prince: I cannot tell, good sir, for which of his
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
By heaven, I think there's no man is secure
starveling. Tut! there are other Trojans that thou
Enter SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
Thine intellect? hath he been in thy heart?
Shall there attend you.
I would not draw them, I would have my bond.
To fine the faults whose fine stands in record,
Knock,
Abetting him to thwart me in my mood!
To learn of me, who stand i' the gaps to teach you,
With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
Better to cease to be. Pray, sir, to the army:
Enter MARIA and Clown
Of many kings. If there come truth from them--
But with the aid of use.
Any thing.
And mince it sans remorse: swear against objects,
A match! 'tis done.
Can speak like us: then wisely, good sir, weigh
And whisper one another in the ear,
[Reads]  'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself
Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of war, here
Revenge, which makes the foul offender quake.
but to the place where, it standeth north-north-east
in private,
Must give: for what? for lead? hazard for lead?
That would I know too: I warrant, one that knows him not.
Exit BANQUO
Indeed, the short and the long is, I serve the Jew,
For that which I did then: beaten for loyalty
Stand in his face to contradict his claim.
And all my mother came into mine eyes
By all the blood that ever fury breathed,
am I myself?
I should so.
Some bear out SLY. A trumpet sounds
That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?
And, for my wife, I know not how it stands,
Make way, unruly woman!
Away, you rogue! dost thou not hear them call?
Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier,
Against the churches, though the yesty waves
For in the marches here we heard you were,
My only love sprung from my only hate!
To shame the guise o' the world, I will begin
To fight for and maintain!
SCENE I. A street in Westminster.
If it were so,--
Was sent to by my brother, one Lucio
Even in his throat--unless it be the king--
And bring him out that is but woman's son
Fellow, commend my service to her beauty,
What may befall him, to his harm and ours:
worthiness would stir it up where it wanted rather
Touch me alike, they're breath I not believe in.
Give me your hand: before this holy friar,
to fright me, if they could. But I will not stir
It may be, very likely.
Ruling in large and ample empery
Exit ULYSSES
extremity of both ends: when thou wast in thy gilt
You heavy people, circle me about,
When he was personal in the Irish war.
By the four opposing coigns
What a wicked beast was I to disfurnish myself
My liege, it is young Henry, earl of Richmond.
If you dare venture in your own behalf,
As if we kept a fair here! Where are these porters,
Give me your hand. Art thou learned?
souls out of one weaver? shall we do that?
What you would have reform'd that is not well,
Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman:
publish her, she bore a mind that envy could not but
Therefore, merchant, I'll limit thee this day
But say, I could not help it.
Only give order for my funeral:
Disguised like Muscovites, in shapeless gear,
This is some minx's token, and I must take out the
The sight whereof I think you had from me,
Mistress, 'respice finem,' respect your end, or
and to be melancholy, and here is part of my rhyme,
Is not my lord seen yet?
The noblest mind he carries
Tut, tut, thou art all ice, thy kindness freezeth:
When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.
Enter VARRIUS
Why should their liberty than ours be more?
And will not let belief take hold of him
How they might hurt their enemies, if they durst,
Please but your honour hear me.
And this for Rutland, both bound to revenge,
Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes,
As venerable Nestor, hatch'd in silver,
In the very end of harvest!
the word l'envoy for a salve?
To raise my state to title of a queen,
Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded,
But tell me true, will't be a match?
I have news to tell you: come, come, give me your hand.
And I repent my fault more than my death,
A woman of less place might ask by law:
Ah, now thou turn'st away thy face for shame!
The greater therefore should our courage be.
Exeunt, fighting
you.
Go to, go to, thou art a foolish fellow:
Was it more precious to me than 'tis now:
There vanish'd in the sunbeams: which portends--
Exeunt PARIS and MENELAUS
to prison! lay bolts enough upon him: let him
But come, the bow: now mercy goes to kill,
Why should you sigh, my lord?
Tears then for babes, blows and revenge for me
If you will not undo what you have done, that is,
So, so, so, so: they laugh that win.
Our soldiers stand full fairly for the day.
Pray you, be round with him.
And cannot help the noble chevalier:
But, sir, sir,
Lord Saturnine, whose virtues will, I hope,
Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke
And borne her cleanly by the keeper's nose?
Lost, and recover'd in a day again!
First, tell me, have you ever been at Pisa?
With you, goodman boy, an you please: come, I'll
Save back to England, all the world's my way.
Lordings, farewell, and say, when I am gone,
come, who you are and what you would are out of my
They take it already upon their salvation, that
The devil their virtue tempts, and they tempt heaven.
This same is she, and I do give you her.
My dukedom since you have given me again,
Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse!
[Aside]  I had rather lose the battle than that sister
'Tis they have put him on the old man's death,
the place, and the condition of this country
and Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath
out. Well, I'll be revenged as I may.
[Within]  Who calls there?
The duke is entering: therefore, hence, away!
I pray you, sir, what is he?
Why? that you are my daughter?
For what he did before Corioli, call him,
I could not stay behind you: my desire,
Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
I tender my commission, by whose virtue,
would have sworn his disposition would have gone to
I'll call upon you straight: abide within.
Exeunt Launcelot and Old Gobbo
SCENE I. Fields between Dartford and Blackheath.
And let her joy her raven-colour'd love,
A hundred thousand more, in surety of the which,
To make thee consul.
So, there goes our protector in a rage.
acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his
O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?
Reads
SCENE III. An ante-chamber in the palace.
They are loves I bear to you.
You hear the learn'd Bellario, what he writes:
the health of black Othello.
Go fetch him hither, let me look upon him.
This letter, then, to Friar Peter give,
books for good manners: I will name you the degrees.
A falsehood in its contrary as great
And some few vanities that make him light,
Upon a rapier's point: stay, Tybalt, stay!
And mine a sad one.
Here in Diana's temple.
How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown:
To the noble heart. What's gone and what's past help
And in the end meet the old course of death,
Aside
And suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace,
And apprehended here immediately
For ever knit.
Our dreadful marches to delightful measures.
sorry that you are paid too much, purse and brain
damned for killing him, from which no warrant can defend us.
I see things too, although you judge I wink.
I love this youth, and I have heard you say,
Fly, to revenge my death when I am dead:
May soon return to this our suffering country
As it is common for the younger sort
To the Fool
You smell this business with a sense as cold
But though they jump not on a just account,--
could to die before, and he is one of the patterns
Your lord does know my mind, I cannot love him:
The fearful difference of incensed kings:
duke to be wise.
Good morrow, little prince.
She loved not the savour of tar nor of pitch,
Let them lay by their helmets and their spears,
O Eglamour, thou art a gentleman--
Once Arviragus, in as like a figure,
These from our king unto your majesty:
saddle. Yet you must be saying, Marcius is proud,
Than all the island kings,--disarm great Hector.
And all that poets feign of bliss and joy.
If could speak so wisely under an arrest, I would
Your lord, myself and other noble friends,
Well, sir, the poor distressed Lear's i' the town,
Heavily, heavily:
I will in Cassio's lodging lose this napkin,
To undergo such maiden pilgrimage,
Enter OTHELLO and EMILIA
but with nobility and tranquillity, burgomasters and
But when I came, alas! to wive,
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
My revenge properly, my remission lies
O, such another sleep, that I might see
Or by what means got'st thou to be released?
And run a tilt at death within a chair?
Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
The horned herd! for I have savage cause,
Of Pericles the careful search,
Then thus for you, my lord: it stands agreed,
Good night.
empty a heart: but the saying is true 'The empty
This is a trick to put me from my suit:
To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late,
And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join
I had good argument for kissing once.
But you have out-faced them all.
Gentlemen, go, muster up your men,
With me? and welcome: happy day, my lords.
Answer mere nature, bid them flatter thee,
An if your wife be not a mad-woman,
Which is not tomb enough and continent
We will attend to neither.
To be in love, where scorn is bought with groans,
Here come our brothers.
Exit EMILIA
By heaven, it is the same I gave the doctor!
She hangs about his neck:
I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
Exit
And I'll renew me in his fall. But, hark!
Celerity is never more admired
Alexander killed his friend Cleitus, being in his
souviendrai. Les doigts? je pense qu'ils sont
Whose eyes are on this sovereign lady fix'd,
No trumpet answers.
To keep base life afoot. Return with her?
An honourable trial.
Signior, you are very near my brother in his love:
'Two boys, an old man twice a boy, a lane,
Maintain'd the change of words with any creature,
And so am I for Phebe.
And make 'em reel before 'em. No man living
--and he is a knave besides, a cowardly knave as you
None, since the curfew rung.
That shows thee a weak slave, for the weakest goes
Thou ran'st a tilt in honour of my love
And 'Honi soit qui mal y pense' write
strain, of approved valour and confirmed honesty. I
i' the church. I have dogged him, like his
Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that
First told me thou wast mad, then camest in smiling,
Good morrow, noble sir.
Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes,
Leaving free things and happy shows behind:
Exit
What best is boded me to mischief! I
business as I shall find means and acquaint you withal.
My noble lord--
corrupt him to revolt.' What say you to this? what
epilogue, yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home?
Which ever since hath kept my eyes from rest,
Offer their own lives in their young's defence?
I would have had them writ more movingly.
You taught me but while-ere?
Exit Servant, with LUCENTIO and HORTENSIO, BIONDELLO following
Much upon this it is: and might not you
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
as secure as sleep. If you will go, I will stuff
And yet a place of high respect with me,--
Our army is ready, come, we'll after them.
Sometimes her head on one side, some another,
sheep-cote! all deaths are too few, the sharpest too easy.
Aside
Yet, know thou, since we have begun to strike,
I'll fetch him presently.
side her, the Bishops of London and
before such villains! Masters, it is proved already
The noise of battle hurtled in the air,
The peace between the French and us not values
That no dissension hinder government:
Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor
Use no entreaty, for it is in vain.
But by your voices, will not so permit me,
And I for no woman.
And mock the deep-mouth'd thunder: for at hand,
Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss
Hath not been used to fear. Even now I tremble
Lysander, look how I do quake with fear:
As it were doomsday.
For it shall strew the footsteps of my rising.
Where is your ancient courage? you were used
They, for their truth, might better wear their heads
Tremble, like aspen-leaves, upon a lute,
Thou then wouldst kill me: do't, the time is come:
Hence! home, you idle creatures get you home:
Who, if he break, thou mayst with better face
I know it well, sir, lo, here is the chain.
ANTIPHOLUS
Some upright justicer! Thou, king, send out
Your reputation comes too short for my daughter, you
No more shall cut his master. Therefore, friends,
I am sorry for thee:
Have made it tedious, wearisome, and heavy
I am senseless of your wrath, a touch more rare
No such jade as you, if me you mean.
To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
That wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes.
While I with self-same kindness welcome thine.
Why, how should she be murder'd?
Are to the jealous confirmations strong
Great store of room, no doubt, left for the ladies,
That comes in triumph over Pompey's blood? Be gone!
rather, ostentare, to show, as it were, his
Nothing confutes me but eyes, and nobody sees me.
for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed.
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
Be well advised, tell o'er thy tale again:
My age was never tainted with such shame.
Yea, man and birds are fain of climbing high.
Woe's scene, world's shame, grave's due by life usurp'd,
O beauty! where is thy faith?
As every present time doth boast itself
Have brought about the annual reckoning.
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
If not, the end of life cancels all bands,
Cry woe, destruction, ruin and decay:
I have seen them in the church together: God send
I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword: one stroke
I show it most of all when I show justice,
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
SCENE I. Alexandria. A room in CLEOPATRA's palace.
Thersites' body is as good as Ajax',
A juggling trick,--to be secretly open.
Notorious wrong.
O husband, God doth know you dined at home,
and yielding.
Or being, concern you not.
But wherefore do you droop? why look you sad?
Whilst I at home starve for a merry look.
Only be patient till we have appeased
hast caused printing to be used, and, contrary to
And show thee all the treasure we have got,
That are within the note of expectation
good lord! a noble gentleman 'tis, if he would not
That struck the foremost man of all this world
With scruples and do set the word itself
What, Eros, Eros!
And many worthy and chaste dames even thus,
Set him before me, let me see his face.
Into the eye and prospect of his soul,
God and the rope-maker bear me witness
Enter another Carrier
Since lowly feigning was call'd compliment:
May this, almost a miracle, be done?
Or shall we sparingly show you far off
Had I been any god of power, I would
Wrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name
Here where his daughter dwells, and on this coast
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
The testimony on my part no other
Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
Good morrow to thee, welcome:
If where thou art two villains shall not be,
An honourable conduct let him have:
Was cried incomparable, and the ensuing night
O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe!
For this great journey. What did this vanity
Shall I bring thee on the way?
Exeunt
What comfortable hour canst thou name,
Well didst thou, Richard, to suppress thy voice,
court distant from this shore?
SCENE III. A room in the Garter Inn.
Now have I paid my vow unto his soul,
I know't, I thank you. You do love my lord:
Go put on thy defences.
you, who, as I take it, have stolen his birds' nest.
I'll intermingle every thing he does
The childing autumn, angry winter, change
Exit above
Thou shalt have cause to fear before I leave thee.
That used me so, or else, by Jove I vow,
Make war breed peace, make peace stint war, make each
We have convenient convoy. You must know
Or any of my brothers of the state,
Her father keeps from all access of suitors,
A pretty moral,
For this advertisement is five days old:
That which his noble ancestors achieved with blows:
Should well agree with our external parts?
Enter the Lord Mayor and CATESBY
Thou camest on earth to make the earth my hell.
Exit an Officer
Pinch him, and burn him, and turn him about,
That is Antonio, the duke's eldest son,
Good morrow, lord, good morrow.
And what said he?
thy fat woman. Let her descend, bully, let her
Much more a knight, a captain and a leader.
We must not make a scarecrow of the law,
A lady like me, with a love even such,
Thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a parable.
Fare you well, your suit is cold.
Thy father! O villain! he is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
It is spoke as a Christians ought to speak.
Pray, write down, Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
And watch our vantage in this business:
Had virtuous uncles to protect his grace.
And make the Douglas' son your only mean
place call upon me, and dispatch with Angelo, that
Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes
And you, our no less loving son of Albany,
Of these thy compounds on such creatures as
In warlike march these greens before your town,
Sir, the contempts thereof are as touching me.
Can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks.
'Tis now near night.
I'll in, to urge his hatred more to Clarence,
And cry 'Content' to that which grieves my heart,
With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate
hiss, you may cry 'Well done, Hercules! now thou
And feeds from home, poor I am but his stale.
Than most have of his age.
Beloved of me, and that my deeds shall prove.
Where Charles the Great, having subdued the Saxons,
Do paint the meadows with delight,
So shall my name with slander's tongue be wounded,
men.
Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment
Is to himself, take thought and die for Caesar:
opening my lips and receiving the bad air.
Promises boys hereafter. Sir, your queen
O, vassal! miscreant!
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
Villains, forbear! we are the empress' sons.
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep,
Hast thou not sworn allegiance unto me?
And our indentures tripartite are drawn,
Thy sheep be in the corn,
I have forgot my part, and I am out,
For prisoners ask'st thou? hell our prison is.
A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak.
My dearest lord, bless'd, to be most accursed,
so, Master Page? He hath wronged me, indeed he
read thus: therefore perpend, my princess, and give ear.
Where my poor young was limed, was caught and kill'd.
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
In that thou laid'st a trap to take my life,
All time of pause, rudely beguiles our lips
Alas, I sent you money to redeem you,
To be o'erheard and taken napping so.
Come, boy, with me, my thoughts are ripe in mischief:
Therefore, as he is an ass, let him go.
Take thy correction mildly, kiss the rod,
Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
prove a mutineer,--the next tree! The poor monster's
His powerful sound within an organ weak:
Became two spouts: the fury spent, anon
No, no, my lord.
Or thou shouldst find thou hast dishonour'd me.
It's nine o'clock.
You give away this hand, and that is mine,
our prains together to be revenge on this same
And let us swear our resolution.
And live with Richmond, from the reach of hell
that word?
Gold cannot come amiss, were she a devil.
The duke must grant me that: besides, his picture
Articles are borrowed of the pronoun, and be thus
hour is fixed, the match is made. Would any man
By this account then Margaret may win him,
Welcome, dear cousin, my thoughts' sovereign
Yes, py'r lady, if he has a quarter of your coat,
Ho, ho, ho! Coward, why comest thou not?
But, master mayor, if Henry be your king,
To bloody thoughts and to revenge, I chose
Enter EGLAMOUR
The way into his mercy: nay, if he coy'd
Down with the Capulets! down with the Montagues!
saved, your honour untainted, the poor Mariana
i' the country, for you'll be rotten ere you be half
And to conclude, we have 'greed so well together,
Prepare we for our marriage--on which day,
I shall review Sicilia, for whose sight
Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand,
Thus have we swept suspicion from our seat
Or let the church, our mother, breathe her curse,
If that her breath will mist or stain the stone,
Why should we in the compass of a pale
little ones: I can compare our rich misers to
But, sir, here comes your boy,
It is your former promise.
To let the wretched man outlive his wealth,
To Milan let me hear from thee by letters
As you feel doing thus, and see withal
Or then, or then, with such, or such, and, as you say,
But once before I spoke to the purpose: when?
not wounded? he was wont to come home wounded.
Indeed, they say the senators tomorrow
are chosen, they are glad to choose me for them, I
My haste is very great: farewell, hie home.
For one poor grain or two, to leave unburnt,
Come on, you madcap, I'll to the alehouse with you
SCENE III. A council-chamber.
I am glad to see you in this merry vein:
Home without boots, and in foul weather too!
Ay, Clifford, a bedlam and ambitious humour
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end:
There is none worthy,
to be fat be to be hated, then Pharaoh's lean kine
in the stable.
Let us wag, then.
This friendly treaty of our threaten'd town?
As you are old and reverend, you should be wise.
Which darest not, no, nor canst not rule a traitor.
His answer was, he would unto the stews,
And see a fearful sight of blood and death.
Of necessary fitness?
Your horrible pleasure: here I stand, your slave,
Do the wise think them other? is not l'envoy a salve?
To PHILEMON
But why, why, why?
gown, I am withered like an old apple-john. Well,
To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too:
Is as 'twere born so.
of the young gentleman gives him out to be of good
Which served me as fit, by all men's judgments,
Thinking his voice an armed Englishman,
How blessed are we that are not simple men!
But say, I prithee, is he coming home? It seems he
Made the all-honour'd, honest Roman, Brutus,
Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio.
Where?
Thus can the demigod Authority
Open't, and read it.
gallowses! I speak against my present profit, but
That bear this mutual heavy load of moan,
Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career, and you
this woman.
Flourish. Enter ALBANY, GONERIL, REGAN, another Captain, and Soldiers
Re-enter TREBONIUS
Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love:
a very good report o' the worm, but he that will
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
Exit
Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say
From whom you now must steal and take no leave,
Why, 'tis well known that, whiles I was
What is a remuneration?
day living. I speak but brotherly of him, but
So do you.
O, Glendower.
To some remote and desert place quite out
Or mons, the hill.
Ay, as some days, but then no sun must shine.
Under correction, sir, we know whereuntil it doth amount.
I left him almost speechless, and broke out
SCENE IV. A hall in the same.
It is my lady, O, it is my love!
Ay, and Hector's a greyhound.
Sir, pardon, 'tis for Agamemnon's ears.
She shall not sue unheard. So to them both.
I will be found most cunning in my patience,
An advocate for an imposter! hush!
Lucilius' Servant	And Sir Philotus too!
Soldier, thou art: but his whole action grows
ANTIPHOLUS
Dumb jewels often in their silent kind
Quit presently the chapel, or resolve you
That Henry's death, my lovely Edward's death,
Sir Humphrey Stafford and h is brother's death
Hath almost ended his life's history:
O wonderful, wonderful, and most wonderful
Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
Been justled from your senses, know for certain
Madam, I have a secret to reveal.
Hath done this deed on Caesar. For your part,
Like one of two contending in a prize,
Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard:
What's this? what's this?
And fought the holy wars in Palestine,
Though to myself forsworn, to thee I'll faithful prove:
'Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive
He will to his Egyptian dish again: then shall the
My purse, my person, my extremest means,
And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you
Exeunt
Welcome, Publius.
So vulgarly and personally accused,
Exeunt Duke and his train
Why, every day, to-morrow. Come, go in:
In a trice,
shorn. what comes the wool to?
As you have said, my lord.
Fortune brings in some boats that are not steer'd.
They fell upon me, bound me, bore me thence
Enter BENEDICK and MARGARET, meeting
By this at Daintry, with a puissant troop.
He knows himself my bed he hath defiled,
Such beastly shameless transformation,
That waits upon your grace?
Re-enter BUCKINGHAM
'Tell him,' quoth she, 'my mourning weeds are done,
We mean to fight: within our files there are,
Bids thee leave these, and with her sovereign grace,
Was it not she and that good man of worship,
I conjure you, by that which you profess,
But in a fainter kind:--O, not like me,
minute behind your hour, I will think you the most
Cannot with safety cast him, for he's embark'd
You must not be so quick.
These flags of France, that are advanced here
Have so incensed that I am reckless what
And far enough from court too.
That's fed with stinking tallow, it were fit
My masters, are you mad? or what are you? Have ye
And grant it.
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
I was the other day talking on the sea-bank with
Well, I'll hear it, sir: yet you must not think to
After the taste of much correction.
Where should he have this gold? It is some poor
O, woe the day!
Now show yourselves men, 'tis for liberty.
I am to-day i' the vein of chivalry:
against such a good time, when I might ha' shown
King Edward's fruit, true heir to the English crown.
He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking
And when you loved, you were my other husband.
Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:
So mighty and so many my defects,
And what they undid did.
Give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood,
Abate thy rage, great duke!
Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
Buckingham, I prithee, pardon me,
Excellent! I smell a device.
As wild Medea young Absyrtus did:
You would be another Penelope: yet, they say, all
No note at all of our being absent hence,
Are men more order'd than when Julius Caesar
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
Whereof I know she is not ignorant:
what's the matter?
SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.
A whoreson tisick, a whoreson rascally tisick so
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
Or can conceal his hunger till he famish?
Which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands
weighed, that curiosity in neither can make choice
Am I your bird? I mean to shift my bush,
Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke,
O that your highness knew my heart in this!
Well, I perceive I must be fain to bear with you.
Plantagenet shall speak first: hear him, lords,
Romeo can,
Plantagenet! I come, Plantagenet!
In Fulvia's death, how mine received shall be.
I have sat here all day.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Nay, that I mean to do. Is not this a lamentable
He that is truly dedicate to war
Fellow, come from the throng, look upon Caesar.
if there is any martial law in the world.
Are  you mankind?
Few love to hear the sins they love to act,
Why, it cannot choose but be a noble plot,
Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet,
Unto the sweet bird's throat,
And not be all day neither.
grows old: God help the while! a bad world, I say.
Good cousin, give me audience for a while.
Thy promises are like Adonis' gardens
When that rash humour which my mother gave me
Prague, that never saw pen and ink, very wittily
Exit
her earnest?
To WARWICK
Exit
The better part of my affections would
Then to the point.
And sleep in peace, slain in your country's wars!
Not I, my lord.
My prisoner? or my guest? by your dread 'Verily,'
about him are under the line, they need no other
Ay, marry, will we, therefore get ye gone.
O gentle lady,
To the Tribunes
Come, Desdemona: 'tis the soldiers' life
the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar,
Though all the world's vastidity you had,
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
May live at peace. He shall conceal it
why, thou knowest I am as valiant as Hercules: but
haste before:
That's all the fault: I spoke with her but once
these you may avoid but the Lie Direct, and you may
But, seeing thou fall'st on me so luckily,
I find my zenith doth depend upon
Madam, I am protector of the realm,
To sue his livery and beg his peace,
sport out of him: by his authority he remains here,
I would prefer him to a better place.
'Fore your queen died, she was more worth such gazes
Still me?
That of his fortunes you should make a staff
I know not what it means, away with her!
him.
But is this Hector?
Whose mind and mine, I know, in that are one,
Welcome to Rome.
And you, sir.
And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!
If I hope well, I'll never see thee more.
Hadst thou been kill'd when first thou didst presume,
To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
Unless he do submit himself to Rome.
Beseech your patience. Peace,
That the precipitation might down stretch
Mine honour keeps the weather of my fate:
He will shake
You speak too bitterly.
Another of his fathom they have none,
Your sweet dependency, and you shall find
I do defy him, and I spit at him,
I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
the commanders very poor rogues, upon my reputation
Has made thee swell thus.
Now let me see if I can construe it: 'Hic ibat
That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a
Makes him to send, that thereby he may gather
I would she did as you say.
That will ask some tears in the true performing of
Stick fiery off indeed.
Will you hear this letter with attention?
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
The proffer'd means of succor and redress.
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
You are welcome, sir, to Cyprus.--Goats and monkeys!
Is outward sorrow, though I think the king
He's loving and most gracious: 'twill be much
Only for propagation of a dower
That will not suffer you to square yourselves,
The royal occupation! thou shouldst see
So do not you, for you are a light wench.
That for our gold we may provision have,
But where was this?
But with my heart the other eye doth see.
Think, my lord!
Follows me every where, I know not why:
But one fiend at a time,
Would murder as it fell.
What, Hal! how now, mad wag! what a devil dost thou
like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
The Lord of Stafford dear to-day hath bought
Come not home in twice six moons,
I'll hear no more: die, prophet in thy speech:
For you my staff of office did I break
Sweet, so would I:
Let me a little show it, even in this,
To-morrow shall we visit you again.
sings 'em over as they were gods or goddesses, you
that infirm and choleric years bring with them.
Well, and say that Marcius
This be Damascus, be thou cursed Cain,
As ever hit my nostril. So, up with it.
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Go, I come, I come.
Right welcome, sir!
away your child on a fool, and a physician? Look on
Upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts
And, O you mortal engines, whose rude throats
Enter PISANIO, with a letter
The fardel there? what's i' the fardel?
Which being sealed interchangeably,
And late, five thousand: to Varro and to Isidore
Alas, poor Proteus! thou hast entertain'd
unicorn, pride and wrath would confound thee and
Why, then thou shalt not have thy husband's lands.
Do thou entreat her show a woman pity.
Most dear'st! my collop! Can thy dam?--may't be?--
We have as many friends as enemies.
ring may be stolen too: so your brace of unprizable
Not one accompanying his declining foot.
A fixed figure for the time of scorn
So York may overlook the town of York.
3. Lord Chancellor, with the purse and mace
And passed sentence may not be recall'd
Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time:
Holding a trencher, jesting merrily?
This was a goodly person,
Which they themselves not feel, but, tasting it,
Most freely I confess, myself and Toby
The best she hath, and she, of all compounded,
And happier much by his affliction made.
The dust that did offend it.
But how, but how? give me particulars.
The air of paradise did fan the house
Prepare thy battle early in the morning,
having in that perished vessel the dowry of his
the ass: if thou wert the ass, thy dulness would
Did this break-from her: 'Good Antigonus,
Has Ventidius and Lucullus denied him?
I take't, 'tis later, sir.
And manage it against despairing thoughts.
wretched corse, of wretched soul bereft:
That never set a squadron in the field,
A man of his place, and so near our favour,
More than light airs and recollected terms
My lord, will't please you pass along?
Like Perseus' horse: where's then the saucy boat
BISHOP
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
Is couched in the woodbine coverture.
commander,
Crested the world: his voice was propertied
Exeunt
How shall we, then, behold their natural tears?
Come, come, Lavinia, look, thy foes are bound.
For so I will. Mine eyes grow dim. Farewell,
Why, no, sir.
Is not this true?
Of more preeminence than fish and fowls,
Is but his steward: no meed, but he repays
have not deserved nobly.
This is the door.
Alas the day! good heart, that was not her fault:
Wilt thou go to bed, Malvolio?
Art not a poet?
The voice again, or, like a gate of steel
Well get you gone: o' Thursday be it, then.
[Aside]  It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
On, good Roderigo: I'll deserve your pains.
Threw off his spirit, his appetite, his sleep,
That it might go on wheels!
You fools of fortune, trencher-friends, time's flies,
Antony, thou wouldst say,--
defend all these: and at all these wards I lie, at a
Must get a father, call'd 'supposed Vincentio,'
I thank you, sir: had I not known those customs,
Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains
I'll hide my master from the flies, as deep
How now, Grumio!
Like it your grace,
With all my heart, I'll send the emperor My hand:
Not without fair reward.
O, how it yearn'd my heart when I beheld
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
sigh till he come.
Enter VAUX
As ever you came of women, come in quickly to Sir
All the occurrence of my fortune since
A spirit I am indeed,
Ay, and this.
side? the king's: no, on both in one, or one in
It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee,
The mutiny he there hastes t' oppress,
All adoration, duty, and observance,
Lord Talbot of Goodrig and Urchinfield,
Unsafe the while, that we
That which I shall report will bear no credit,
That see I by our faces, we are fellows still,
Garter, in his coat of arms, and on his
Pins and poking-sticks of steel,
Hurt him! his body's a passable carcass, if he be
I should lament thy miserable state.
What, in metre?
Sir, shall I to this lady?
Must end that work the ides of March begun,
The tucket sonance and the note to mount,
I know not what to say: but give me your hands,
Noble Ventidius,
And six or seven winters more respect
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
Ay, worthy Menenius, and with most prosperous
Yea, that she did: but yet, for all that, an if she
And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous
drink, and fear not your man.
The nature of their crimes, that I may minister
Have woe to woe, sorrow to sorrow join'd.
The business she hath broached in the state
O, that's the case of the shepherd's son: hang him,
With the mere rankness of their joy.
My liege, his railing is intolerable:
Her true perfection, or my false transgression,
Enter ROSS
Most like a careful subject, have collected
Never so little show of love to her,
That copest with death himself to scape from it:
What, should I hurt her, strike her, kill her dead?
Go to, we pardon thee: therefore, in brief,
Most certain. Let our catch be, 'Thou knave.'
park, which, put together, is in manner and form
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
Nor nothing monstrous neither?
ACT I
Which I so lively acted with my tears
I greet your honours from Andronicus.
Some god direct my judgment! Let me see,
Exit
Let us sit down and mark their yelping noise,
Indeed we heard how near his death he was
To see him every hour, to sit and draw
Re-enter, from the barge, Lord, with MARINA, and a young Lady
to meet you on the way, and kiss your hand,
of a cup into a glass, by filling the one doth empty
You orphan heirs of fixed destiny,
What's a drunken man like, fool?
Ere this rude beast will profit.
Ay, cousin Slender, and 'Custalourum.
Even here undone!
With the next benefit o' the wind.
Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
of the dog-days now reign in's nose, all that stand
properly, stays me here at home unkept, for call you
Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
Saint Lawrence Poultney, did of me demand
de nails, de arma, de bilbow.
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
To chide my fortune, and torment myself?
The pride of kingly sway from out my heart,
But God hath made her sin and her the plague
Boldly 'not guilty,' the imposition clear'd
Against their father, fool me not so much
Good queen, I say good queen,
Disdaining duty that to us belongs.
Yet, for necessity of present life,
That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true:
His wife that's dead did trespasses to Caesar,
'Twere good you knocked him.
Should dying men flatter with those that live?
Because she is something lower than myself,
Before the king will grant her humble suit.
most courtly and fashionable: performance is a kind
Why, what's the matter?
Is to do thus, when such a mutual pair
I pray, talk me of Cassio.
What Conrade!
And you, my lords, methinks you do not well
Does he not?
I have served Prince Florizel and in my time
Well, let them practise and converse with spirits:
As was your former, but she shall be such
gaols and let out the prisoners.
So foul a sky clears not without a storm:
as braggarts do their blades, which God be thanked,
And I am something curious, being strange,
As you intended well.
She comes more nearer earth than she was wont,
Exeunt LEONATO and Messenger
AEdiles, seize him!
merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?
with a piece of your performance. Nell, he is full
That would with treason wound this fair land's peace!
mots que vous m'avez appris des a present.
Give Mutius burial with our brethren.
I hear that news, my lord.
And would afford my speechless vizard half.
mummers, set up the bloody flag against all
Exeunt
She was a charmer, and could almost read
The common voice do cry it shall be so.
Do all men kill the things they do not love?
He is my dear friend, an please you.
They swirl asunder and dismember me.
her recompense: and here, by this, is your brother
they list.
Your loss your sport: I hope you know that we
The proudest peer in the realm shall not wear a head
ANTIPHOLUS
I would not be ambitious in my wish,
Ay, sir, and wherefore, for they say every why hath
And ne'er throughout the year to church thou go'st
By cock, they are to blame.
O, fie upon thee, slanderer!
as a gib cat or a lugged bear.
I greatly fear my money is not safe.
being gracious, than they are in losing them when
Alas, how is't with you,
The letter, as I live, with all the business
Room for six scotches more.
To give mine enemy a lasting wink,
That will allow me very worth his service.
Stand!
And send forth us, to make their sorrow'd render,
I have been to you a true and humble wife,
The Lady Cressida.
Well, well, there's one yonder arrested and carried
Who in unnecessary action swarm
And many of the consuls, raised and met,
I warrant thee.
Exeunt
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
That our garments, being, as they were, drenched in
Caesar, I will:
Exeunt all but HASTINGS, RATCLIFF, and LOVEL
And winds of all the comers kiss'd your sails,
That I, your vassal, have employ'd and pain'd
Your favours nor your hate.
Let me embrace thine age, whose honour cannot
Caesar, all hail! good morrow, worthy Caesar:
Depress'd he is already, and deposed
description the matter to you, if you be capacity of it.
And if my death might make this island happy,
Why, what's a moveable?
Against the flint and hardness of my fault:
What violent hands can she lay on her life?
For, by the way, I'll sort occasion,
'Tis not the balm, the sceptre and the ball,
And let him feed.
For Antony,
the heart of my message.
Who am I? ha?
I know her answer.
preeches. Go your ways, and play, go.
'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a
In, fellow, there, into the hovel: keep thee warm.
You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid,
They have said their prayers, and they stay for death.
To answer matters of this consequence.
Blown with the windy tempest of my heart,
As far as Calais, to mine uncle's head?'
Well, well, the event.
Ay, and since too, murders have been perform'd
Who should have died when Claudio lost his head,
Go you, Malvolio: if it be a suit from the count, I
Even so. What are you?
To be my fellow-servant to your ladyship.
you'll be laughed at.
him, thinkest thou? And what has he sent now?
He is not Hector.
Which even now stand in act, that, for their souls,
Enter MISTRESS OVERDONE
commendation is not in his wit, but in his villany,
Exeunt
I up my apes, and away to Saint Peter for the
Else ne'er could he so long protract his speech.
It is the lesser blot, modesty finds,
That next by him beneath, so every step,
Exit
DON
to the madman.
honourable without marriage? I think you would have
Live, noble Helicane!
might have a good woman born but one every blazing
Led us to Rome, strangers, and more than so,
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
SCENE I. Britain. Before Cymbeline's palace.
Is a sharp wit matched with too blunt a will,
And be my vantage to exclaim on you.
Madam, methinks, if you did love him dearly,
Well thought on: take my sword,
I do forgive thee.
can give you intelligence of an intended marriage.
O Cassius, I am sick of many griefs.
His measure duly.
Wherein we play in.
I spy comfort, I cry bail. Here's a gentleman and a
words, and keeps whole weapons. For Nym, he hath
of will or testament which argues a great sickness
Even the billows of the sea,
pretty one, a very pretty one: sure, some 'scape:
'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief,
More than with parting from my lord the king.
She did betray me to my own reproof.
if you hold your life at any price, betake you to
Shake he his weapon at us and pass by.
Till Katharina the curst have got a husband.
Art thou there, Diomed? Draw thy sword, and give me
Nor to their penn'd speech render we no grace,
I found not Cassio's kisses on her lips:
And will o'erreach them in their own devices:
Black as the ink that's on thee! Senseless bauble,
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
What thou hast said to me.
And not being able to buy out his life
And well she can persuade.
take't of my soul, my lord leans wondrously to
Now blessed by the hour, by night or day,
and by and by in as high a flow as the ridge of the gallows.
You are as well provided of both as any prince in the world.
But if I live, his feigned ecstasies
Back, slave, or I will break thy pate across.
Wherefore is that? and what art thou that darest
Each takes his fellow for an officer.
SCENE IV. Camp of the YORK in Anjou.
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
Go bid my woman feign a sickness, say
If I would sell my horse, and buy twenty more
Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
And world's exile is death: then banished,
His over-mounting spirit, and there died,
That's strange.
such an answer would stop them all. To be now a
And win them too: therefore let us devise
She loved me for the dangers I had pass'd,
Whose grossness little characters sum up:
Why you are heavy, and what men to-night
Sent from my brother Worcester, whencesoever.
As o'er-dyed blacks, as wind, as waters, false
heart as I can bid the other four farewell, I should
I will, my lord.
Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
I' the name of me--
Because I cannot meet my Hermia.
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
Come, sing.
casket, you should refuse to perform your father's
I mind to tell him plainly what I think.
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
When thou shalt kneel, and justify in knowledge
By the mass, so did we all. I thank you, Richard:
For urging it the second time to me.
is not true. The knight, Sir John, is there, and, I
And enterprises of great pith and moment
Than, by concealing it, heap on your head
And I to Norfolk with my followers.
Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant,
And now what rests but that we spend the time
The pap of Pyramus,
Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke
But, for your son,--believe it, O, believe it,
The Dauphin rages at our very heels.
Our merchants' goods at Bourdeaux.
A prize no less in worth: keep this man safe,
His lands to me, and took it on his death
As shore of rock. Attend. This holy fox,
Lead to the Sagittary the raised search,
Now entertain conjecture of a time
And made them watchers of mine own heart's sorrow.
A truant disposition, good my lord.
Be given to your remembrance--the description
And follow me with speed: I'll to the king:
O, beat away the busy meddling fiend
I fear neither sword nor fire.
Men and men's fortunes could I frankly use
By letters congruing to that effect,
And charge that no man should disturb your rest
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Courses as swift as thought in every power,
To horse, you gallant princes! straight to horse!
We are busy, go.
Lie hid moe thousand deaths: yet death we fear,
Agreed.
Gives the ring
Falstaff, and drink canary with him.
evening prayer, as any is in Windsor, whoe'er be the
Enter, from thence, LYSIMACHUS and Lords, with the Gentlemen and the two Sailors
should not think of God, I hoped there was no need
Madam, I had.
Are now confined two mighty monarchies,
Shall be for me, and, to requite you further,
Come, come, let's fall in with them.
The general cause? or is it a fee-grief
flown, bird! i' the clout, i' the clout: hewgh!
That we shall hardly in our ages see
Finger of birth-strangled babe
where to hide my head: yond same cloud cannot
And yielding to him humours well his frenzy.
Be they of much import?
I hope your own grace will keep you where you are,
Sleeps
In that and all things will we show our duty.
Not sensible of fire, remain'd unscorch'd.
quit. O, the charity of a penny cord! It sums up
If you do fight against your country's foes,
Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,
My lord?
To let this canker of our nature come
Corrupted, and exempt from ancient gentry?
And not my brother.
my subject and he shall not suffer indignity.
To our own vantage.
I take it, your own business calls on you
Catch in their fury, and make nothing of,
Away with him, away with him! he speaks Latin.
To send in to your wife: my suit to her
You rise to play and go to bed to work.
And to proclaim it civilly, were like
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
'As true as Troilus' shall crown up the verse,
SCENE I. London. QUEEN KATHARINE's apartments.
Though less than yours in past, must o'ertop yours,
the hill, we'll walk afoot awhile, and ease our legs.
And rouse the prince and ring a hunter's peal,
As thou lovest me, Camillo, wipe not out the rest of
Arrest them to the answer of the law,
Who doth he gallop withal?
Setting down his basket
Exeunt Pandar and Pirates
The close earth wombs or the profound sea hides
With them a bastard of the king's deceased,
The very instant that I saw you, did
But why should honour outlive honesty?
But if you ever chance to have a child,
Who kept him in captivity till he died.
Ay me!
Enter certain Nymphs
I thank thee, good Sir John, with all my heart.
My blood, my want of strength, my sick heart shows.
Exit
Well,
That my integrity and truth to you
hath slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O
Ay, and the captain of his horse, Count Rousillon.
Indeed my mother! or were you both our mothers,
She melted into air. Affrighted much,
the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty
Brought to this shore, and by my prescience
For I was spoke to, with Sir Henry Guildford
Thy knower, Patroclus: then tell me, Patroclus,
And here she stands, touch her whoever dare,
If now I court not but omit, my fortunes
her to rise.
'Tis now too certain:
Shall I come upon thee with an old saying, that was
A little herd of England's timorous deer,
and a stand: ruminates like an hostess that hath no
ACT V
Pronounce that sentence then on me, my liege:
[Aside]	Too hot, too hot!
Enter LYSANDER and HELENA
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
Now near enough: your leafy screens throw down.
Have I heard groan and drop: then know me not,
And, being a winner, God give you good night!
Playing in the wanton air:
We have landed in ill time: the skies look grimly
Then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth,
By all the operation of the orbs
[Aside]  O excellent motion! O exceeding puppet!
As we will ours, against these saucy walls,
He did command me to call timely on him:
Come, mistress, come your ways with me.
Rare words! brave world! Hostess, my breakfast, come!
Whilst some with cunning gild their copper crowns,
No, I thank you, forsooth, heartily, I am very well.
What is your pleasure, madam?
I will embrace him with a soldier's arm,
Art thou of blood and honour?
Writings all tending to the great opinion
Give me a case to put my visage in:
What law does vouch mine own.
May know if you remain upon this island,
Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have
Exeunt ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER and Provost
Have in this robbery lost three hundred marks.
Adieu! tears exhibit my tongue. Most beautiful
Very good, my lord.
And with this horrible object, from low farms,
Excursions. Enter RICHARD and CLIFFORD
I quote it in your jerkin.
I will not speak with him, say I am sick:
There is no other way
Thou slander of thy mother's heavy womb!
A day's work in him. What shalt thou expect,
Ready to starve and dare not touch his own:
In manners, as in shape! thy blood and virtue
He answer'd thus: 'Young Talbot was not born
Upon this French going out, took he upon him,
SCENE I. Plains near Rome.
Tearing off his clothes
Nice longing, slanders, mutability,
O me, lieutenant! what villains have done this?
Which he, young wanton and effeminate boy,
the king, as to be--
good prey of us, if he knew of it, for there is
So will I turn her virtue into pitch,
Thou darest not, coward, live to see that day.
And take him from our presence.
With grief that's beauty's canker, thou mightst call him
But that I love the gentle Desdemona,
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
As bright Apollo's lute, strung with his hair:
He and his toothpick at my worship's mess,
From forth this morsel of dead royalty,
Here you shall see a countryman of yours
[Aside]             To be sure of that,
By looking back what I have left behind
Hearing applause and universal shout,
In you, which I account his beyond all talents,
Your love deserves my thanks, but my desert
Farewell, farewell:
My dull deaf ears a little use to hear:
ACT I
It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
Upon some book I love I'll pray for thee.
beef: ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear, for I
Let me love him for that, and do you love him
and no more ado. Remember 'stoned,' and 'flayed alive.'
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
De elbow.
When the intent of bearing them is just.
And our good his.
Peace with his soul, heaven, if it be thy will!
That my master, being scribe, to himself should write
Which mates him first that first intends deceit.
Would I had never come from thence, nor you Thither!
Which is that adversary?
Of your commissions.
My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speak.
Bartholomew-tide, blind, though they have their
The steeled gaoler is the friend of men.
There's nothing I have done yet, o' my conscience,
Of a snail?
Hath lost me in your liking.
Shall I obtain it?
On such regards of safety and allowance
Most resolute Pompey!
And I dare think he'll prove to Desdemona
Where the warlike Smalus,
thing, Nerissa, ere I'll be married to a sponge.
Bereft of ships and men, cast on this shore.
A noble wish.
Go, give 'em welcome, you can speak the French tongue,
Boult, take you the marks of her, the colour of her
Remuneration for the thing it was,
To an impatient child that hath new robes
boy, the next way home.
He is a privileged man. Proceed, Thersites.
sithence, in the loss that may happen, it concerns
that shall drive some of them to a non-come: only
His going I could frame to serve my turn,
And, like the devil, from his very arm
Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
would have nothing lie on my head: I cannot be thus satisfied.
That loved your father: the residue of your fortune,
dislike, so is the will of a living daughter curbed
How! the prince is a Jack, a sneak-cup: 'sblood, an
The worst is death, and death will have his day.
Go to, sir, you weigh equally, a feather will turn
As often as we eat. By the elements,
Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin,
While we bethink a means to break it off.
Herod of Jewry, Mithridates, king
And set them on Lud's-town.
Whether this be
Thou art always figuring diseases in me, but thou
That it engluts and swallows other sorrows
[Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
Unless it be whilst some tormenting dream
I am amazed with matter.
This is to feel a tale, not to hear a tale.
Exit Second Servant
That will I.
As he made semblance of his duty, would
To BELARIUS
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do,
Tell her I have chastised the amorous Trojan,
'Twere good, methinks, to steal our marriage,
You weary those that refresh us: pray, let's see
thy husband were dead: I'll speak it before the
That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.
Northumberland, say thus the king returns:
Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is't I
Exeunt YORK, EDWARD, EDMUND, GEORGE, RICHARD,  WARWICK, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, their Soldiers, and Attendants
for thee, let me have thy voice in my behalf: if
I do digest the poison of thy flesh,
With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
For 'tis of aspics' tongues!
Were brass impregnable, and humour'd thus
Not I:
The queen desires you to use some gentle
And who is England's king but great York's heir?
Out of the great respect they bear to beauty,
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
With drink, sir?
Is mortals' chiefest enemy.
my opinion, hold it no longer: this is no fish,
I shall indue you with: meantime but ask
Play'd foul play with our oaths: your beauty, ladies,
And make them dread it, to the doers' thrift.
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
I'll have the cudgel hallowed and hung o'er the
But how hath she
Oh for my husband, for my dear lord Edward!
Do more than this in sport. Father, father!
I will come after you with what good speed
Will serve to strangle thee, a rush will be a beam
supposed distress of his: it will show honestly in
Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting,
My poor body, madam, requires it: I am driven on
To thick-eyed musing and cursed melancholy?
The sealing-day betwixt my love and me,
Let it not be believed for womanhood!
Peace, and be still!
Have holp to make so portly.
Thou makest me merry, I am full of pleasure:
are like to dance these three days, besides the
Exeunt all but KING HENRY VI and EXETER
Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,
Watch thou and wake when others be asleep,
Fetch forth the stocks!
Since you will buckle fortune on my back,
Give me some ink and paper in my tent
A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire,
Where is the foolish knave I sent before?
converted I know not, but methinks you look with
Not so hot:
passion something and for no passion truly any
Madam, I shall.
Well shone, Moon. Truly, the moon shines with a
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
The hour before the heavenly-harness'd team
Which in the bluster of thy wrath must fall
And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye,
Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
Else one self mate and mate could not beget
That he will not. 'Tis your fault, 'tis your fault,
viol-de-gamboys, and speaks three or four languages
A maid, they say.
I'll teach them to prevent wild Alcibiades' wrath.
And not obedient to his honest will,
I would he loved his wife: if he were honester
I must from this enchanting queen break off:
Shall from your neck unloose his amorous fold,
Success unto our valiant general,
Parcel the sum of my disgraces by
But hath his bound, in earth, in sea, in sky:
And consequently, like a traitor coward,
Had you been there, I think you would have begg'd
But by degree, stand in authentic place?
good enough.
At one fell swoop?
I understand the business, I hear it: to have an
Why now, as fast as she can marry us.
The heavens,
This will last out a night in Russia,
Be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd,
I have got two worlds by 't. O my gentle brothers,
'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
What should I do?
An oath of mickle might, and fury shall abate.
doe?
If any man doubt that, let him put me to my
And begin, 'Why to me?'
Take her, fair son, and from her blood raise up
When I did speak of some distressful stroke
Like to the summer's corn by tempest lodged.
Enter CALPURNIA
That he's revengeful, and I know his sword
Sound, sound, sound, sound!
Faith, as you say, there's small choice in rotten
Thou camest--
And would have reft the fishers of their prey,
I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true,
How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse!
ho! here he comes, to beguile two hours in a sleep,
Betwixt you and the cardinal. I advise you--
I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious
Than yet can be imagined or supposed.
With one 'We thank you' many thousands moe
How far that little candle throws his beams!
Came here in grace our solemnity.
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,
escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him
And may direct his course as please himself,
To make a false one.
Which God's dew quench! Therefore I say again,
So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
Enter FORD, PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
If any come, Hector shall honour him,
And I unto the sea from whence I came.
The church! where is it? Had not churchmen pray'd,
And that's the dearest grace it renders you,--
Pray, entertain them, give them guide to us.
And in such indexes, although small pricks
Ambitious York doth level at thy crown,
She wish'd me to make known, but our great court
Exeunt
Exeunt the three Citizens
THE FORTUNATE-UNHAPPY.'
Were it a casque composed by Vulcan's skill,
Screw'd to my memory? She hath been reading late
I sheathe again undeeded. There thou shouldst be,
Like hold on thee. Let go his arm.
Ere I learn love, I'll practise to obey.
like brothers and worship me their lord.
I'ld not have show'd it.
And bring all Cyprus comfort!
Now I do frown on thee with all my heart,
Whose liquor hath this virtuous property,
was in that credit with them at that time that I
But thou art deeper read, and better skill'd
10. Certain Ladies or Countesses, with plain
The treasure in this field achieved and city,
So may he rest, his faults lie gently on him!
Clap's into 'Light o' love,' that goes without a
Our sister's man is certainly miscarried.
But I will tell you at some meeter season:
That is too much presumption on thy part:
I prithee, tell me, doth he keep his bed?
How some men creep in skittish fortune's hall,
Approach, and speak.
To the perpetual wink for aye might put
But end it by some means for Imogen.
Ay, here's a deer whose skin's a keeper's fee:
hadst been poor John. Draw thy tool! here comes
Sur mes genoux je vous donne mille remercimens, et
Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.
Blows fair from land: they stay for nought at all
The sinew and the forehand of our host,
thee, good man's son, from the foul fiend! five
I know you can do very little alone, for your helps
to such a canary. Yet there has been knights, and
What make you from home?
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
be made parchment? that parchment, being scribbled
In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will,
As done: perseverance, dear my lord,
with me, let not your worship think me the poor
To thee the book even of my secret soul:
The breath of heaven has blown his spirit out
A fine musician to instruct our mistress,
Thy mistress' marks? what mistress, slave, hast thou?
From him that fled some strange indignity,
Enter Soldier
We shall be shorten'd in our aim, which was
Were all address'd to meet you, gentle lady,
[Aside]  I will be patient, I will find out this.
Or look upon our Romans, whose remembrance
Under this plot, she dies for't. Eros, ho!
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
Hath wisdom's warrant and the help of school
and disheartens him, makes him stand to, and
your execution. If you think it meet, compound with
Been publicly accused, so shall she have
O God's name, see the lists and all things fit:
As it doth me--a nobler sir ne'er lived
I have, and most unwillingly, of late
If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
Do their gay vestments his affections bait?
three half pence. Nym and Bardolph are sworn
Go, good partner, go, get you to Francis Seacole,
bitterness of it I now belch from my heart--that she
Ta'en of your many virtues, the king's majesty
So opposite to marriage that she shunned
Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye,
And one Deformed is one of them: I know him, a'
Oft have I seen a hot o'erweening cur
Exeunt Hostess and Boy
Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his
a whole bookful of these quondam carpet-mangers,
Save these men's looks, who do, methinks, find out
ANTIPHOLUS
Nothing, my lord.
I'll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate.
And better 'twere you troubled him than France.
Salt Cleopatra, soften thy waned lip!
I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,
Witness that here Iago doth give up
Brew'd with her sorrow, mesh'd upon her cheeks:
art thou not drowned, Stephano? I hope now thou art
For I am she, and altogether joyless.
Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
The time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow
Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and DORSET
a villain that says such a father begot villains.
I lay me down a little while to breathe,
Banish the canker of ambitious thoughts.
But let them measure us by what they will,
That grew upon my lips: then laid his leg
my wife is my friend. If men could be contented to
upward, and all was as cold as any stone.
Enter the BASTARD, attended
O God, I fear thy justice will take hold
it among the whitsters in Datchet-mead, and there
Enter ORLANDO, with a paper
Ay, my commander: when I presented Ceres,
Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough
thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will
The virtuous Cranmer.
If thou be'st Prospero,
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
O, keep me from their worse than killing lust,
When we are old as you? when we shall hear
Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
He never gave commandment for their death.
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
fancy, the jerks of invention? Imitari is nothing:
His brother warr'd upon him, although, I think,
Equal in lustre, were now best, now worst,
SCENE V. Elsinore. A room in the castle.
You are amazed, my liege, at her exclaim:
should buy the fee-simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
To PERICLES
Too much to know is to know nought but fame,
Which I have wonder'd at. In hope it shall not,
[Aside]  What I do next, shall be to tell the king
hand, my words are as fun of peace as matter.
Finely put on!
Day serves not light more faithful than I'll be.
And Adam was a gardener.
and heart-burning heat of duty.
Yea, and to marry her, if her dowry please.
The queen of curds and cream.
Can qualify the same?
And not our streets with war!
me: I serve her, she is my lady. Why, this is
The urging of that word 'judgment' hath bred a kind
That man may question? You seem to understand me,
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO and MOTH
Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
Such precious deeds in one that promises nought
But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide
The enemy, marching along by them,
That speaks he knows not what?
And so do I, yet did she call me so:
There's a trim rabble let in: are all these
From giving reins and spurs to my free speech,
What love, think'st thou, I sue so much to get?
he out of Venice, I can make what merchandise I
And ne'er a true one.
And like a mountain, not to be removed.
Fit counsellor and servant for a prince,
For them the gracious Duncan have I murder'd,
Hath my maid's garments: he upon some action
You sent me for a rope's end as soon:
Nor I, assure thee, Regan.
war I sent him, from whence he returned, his brows
Should yawn at alteration.
'Tis full of woe: yet I can give you inkling
Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks:
fantastical, the wedding, mannerly-modest, as a
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
Hath had no notice of these accidents,
loves not the common people.
with clean hands.
And tapers burn'd to bedward!
I here engage my words.
Think true love acted simple modesty.
That wore the imperial diadem of Rome,
wherewith,--
Farewell, my Desdemona: I'll come to thee straight.
To FERDINAND
[Aside]  No question of that, for I have seen him
With ruder terms, such as my wit affords
Her brother's noontide with Antipodes.
March. Enter MONTGOMERY, with drum and soldiers
by the will of a dead father. Is it not hard,
SCENE VII. A tent in the French camp. LEAR on a bed asleep,
a true man.
Nothing so heavy as these woes of mine.
Incurr'd a traitor's name, exposed myself,
not be long, that the time may have all shadow and
And dispossess her all.
So let them have their answers every one:
rose, it was the death of him.
Unless you please to enter in the castle
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,
As honour, love, obedience, troops of friends,
And all the ceremony of this compact
The matter's in my head and in my heart:
We, ignorant of ourselves,
Low-crooked court'sies and base spaniel-fawning.
Only, my friend, I yet am unprovided
Enter VALERIA, with an Usher and Gentlewoman
Scorn'dst our brain's flow and those our
directly in love with him.
Due reference of place and exhibition,
Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke:
Shall come again, transform'd to orient pearl,
The smallest scruple of her excellence
I beseech your grace, let this letter be read:
Villain, I say, knock me at this gate
without warning.
By what you see them act. Is there not charms
Ay, a token from Troilus.
Whose virtue and whose general graces speak
instigation, to prove him a knave and myself an
That hath in it no profit but the name.
And what's he then that says I play the villain?
Myself am one made privy to the plot.
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain,
in the army of any sort.
I am best pleased to be from such a deed.
Demetrius is a worthy gentleman.
Fool, I'll requite it in the highest degree: I
Master Parson, quasi pers-on. An if one should be
O you panderly rascals! there's a knot, a ging, a
Enter GEORGE BEVIS and JOHN HOLLAND
Howsoe'er 'tis strange,
And he, long traded in it, makes it seem
And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor,
Which entertain'd, limbs are his instruments,
It does, my lord.
We are wise girls to mock our lovers so.
And fight maliciously: for when mine hours
Petition us at home: Sextus Pompeius
hands for my service but blows. When I am cold, he
To grow there and to bear,--'Let me not live,'--
Within me is a hell, and there the poison
Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.
As much to you at home! and so, farewell.
Exeunt Executioners
his servant? Nay, I'll be sworn, I have sat in the
And let us make incision for your love,
Me shall you find ready and willing
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Except thou wilt except against my love.
Well, sir, good night.
Mourn not, except thou sorrow for my good,
be granted to be much at one. But, Kate, dost thou
That would hang us, every mother's son.
Into destruction cast him.
Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
medicinable to me: I am sick in displeasure to him,
Well, I will smite his noddles. Pray you, follow.
A piece of ordnance 'gainst it I have placed,
Freshly on me: 'tis surely for a name.
Come, strike up!
Cousin, a word, where is your husband?
For if Lord Percy thrive not, ere the king
of an If, as, 'If you said so, then I said so,' and
will be king and queen--save our graces!--and
Good morrow, both.
Under Captain Gower, my liege.
invisible soul,--
Speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath!
With his own hand did slay his youngest son,
It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.
Bearing a state of mighty moment in't
Doth he so seek his life?
As any man in Illyria, whatsoever he be, under the
And thou, too careless patient as thou art,
But, he away, 'tis noble.
Lewis, determine what we shall do straight.
Ay, four, in buckram suits.
In all my lands and leases whatsoever:
And, being angry, does forget that ever
Tell you the Dauphin I am coming on,
My lord, prince Pericles is fled.
Despised substance of divinest show!
Enter BARNARDINE
Safely stowed.
What mean you, madam? by my life, my troth,
He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana: a nun
He says so.
but yet no coward, Hal.
Be it known, that we, the greatest, are misthought
So farewell, Talbot, I'll no longer trust thee.
your swag-bellied Hollander--Drink, ho!--are nothing
To the contrary I have express commandment.
Rosaline, by good hap.
Doth fat me with the very thoughts of it!
That ne'er did service for't: being press'd to the war,
The lineal glory of your royal house,
Roger had issue, Edmund, Anne and Eleanor.
Who makes the fairest show means most deceit.
ANTIPHOLUS
The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow
If we do meet again, why, we shall smile,
First were we sad, fearing you would not come,
Let me beseech your grace not to do so:
Is almost finish'd, and her epitaphs
And thus far having stretch'd it--here be with them--
Our souls religiously confirm thy words.
O bon Dieu! les langues des hommes sont pleines de
Whither will you have me? Why do you weep?
Receive him,
Exeunt DON JOHN and BORACHIO
I' the name of something holy, sir, why stand you
Gentlemen, I have dreamed to-night, I'll tell you my
When last the young Orlando parted from you
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
Like to a double cherry, seeming parted,
I'll kiss thy foot, I'll swear myself thy subject.
BISHOP
make thine own self the conquest of thy fury: wert
I will bestow you where you shall have time
Marcius!
ensnare as great a fly as Cassio. Ay, smile upon
you.
To bear with patience
Have lopp'd and hew'd and made thy body bare
Enter HENRY PERCY, and the BISHOP OF CARLISLE
Dispute not with her, she is lunatic.
It shows but little love or judgment in him:
Very true, and but a month old.
Exit
you make your voyage upon her and give me directly
Exeunt
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage,
To show his sorrow, he'ld correct himself,
Being now seen possible enough, got credit,
By this our mother is forever shamed.
Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the
That may be wish'd for.
And to the nightingale's complaining notes
I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
their services, and now my whole charge consists of
But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.
The heaviness and guilt within my bosom
Hath kill'd the flock of all affections else
And spurn upon thee, beggar, for thy boldness.
If I begin the battery once again,
Sound drums and trumpets! farewell sour annoy!
Take from my heart all thankfulness! The gods
Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold
To tell your grace, that, having heard by fame
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
SCENE II. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
bigger than pins' heads, and they have bought out
I must go send some better messenger:
[To BERTRAM]  I dare not say I take you, but I give
To keep your great pretences veil'd till when
He is afraid of me and I of him:
My master is awaked by great occasion
And therefore banish'd--is a creature such
And tell me, noble Diomed, faith, tell me true,
O, but for my love, day would turn to night!
Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud,
Upon thy wedding-day?
I would it were no worse.
Will you not eat your word?
But whether I be as true begot or no,
But sound the trumpets, and about our task.
I do remember how my father said
Ho! who's here?
Because that, like a Jack, thou keep'st the stroke
Sir, I will serve him, for I do find your hangman is
Before me, she's a good wench.
And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
While you, sweet dear, prove mistress of my heart!
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant,
shall have tribute of me, the adventurous knight
But, since thy outside looks so fair and warlike,
More, more, I prithee, more.
Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course,
Amen, so I had mine: is not that a good word?
Good God, these nobles should such stomachs bear!
In doing it, pays itself. Your highness' part
and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging.
Wherein you see me smear'd, if any fear
My mouth no more were broken than these boys',
Nay, we must use expostulation kindly,
He forfeits his own blood that spills another.
They have placed their men of trust?
Monsieur Love! I will hide me in the arbour.
Only for saying he would make his son
If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn.
No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips.
That errs in ignorance and not in cunning,
concavities of it is not sufficient, for, look you,
Fie!
I do not always follow lover, elder brother and
By the eighth hour: is that the uttermost?
Be content and seek no new,
If we be not relieved within this hour,
What mean you by that saying?
Exeunt
Alack, sir, you cannot see your way.
In feather'd briefness sails are fill'd,
salvation, body and soul.
For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister,
Unless thou wert more loyal than thou art:
Upon entreaty have a present aims,
Part them, they are incensed.
Shall Lewis have Blanch, and Blanch those provinces?
at me, for it was so dark, Hal, that thou couldst
you should enter, if your trade be to her.
Painting is welcome.
Patience, good sir, do not assist the storm.
If we offend, it is with our good will.
Myself and divers gentlemen beside
dat I vill not for the varld I shall leave behind.
What revels are in hand? Is there no play,
I perceive, sir, by the general's looks, we shall be
Which by the interpretation of full time
And quarter'd in her heart! he doth espy
I see thee yet, in form as palpable
My youthful travel therein made me happy,
For all the treasure that thine uncle owes:
God shall be truly known, and those about her
In our opinions she should be preferr'd.
If you will swear you have not done't, you lie,
Three talents on the present, in future, all.
It might have been recovered.
Venetian admittance.
My Lord of York will still be cross in talk:
I will catechise the world for him, that is, make
It is Biron's writing, and here is his name.
I fear I am not in my perfect mind.
Affront Ophelia:
Than arm thy constant and thy nobler parts
Thy sister's naught: O Regan, she hath tied
He shall in strangeness stand no further off
Sundays. Look Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
Exit Ghost
A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
And piece the way out with a heavy heart.
Let us have knowledge at the court of guard.
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
rope's-end.'
And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
Which we more hunt for than the grace of God!
And cloister thee in some religious house:
And nature must obey necessity,
By cock and pie, you shall not choose, sir! come, come.
O' the rolls, and the king's secretary, further, sir,
A sail, a sail!
is a figure in rhetoric that drink, being poured out
Hath, with the courage which the heart did lend it,
Come, my masters, let us share, and then to  horse
soldier, put up your iron: you are well fleshed, come on.
Go thou: I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs
Was born of woman.
To Angelo
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
As all things shall redound unto your good.
five or at seven?
Well, well, no more.
Which may, if fortune please, both breed thee, pretty,
Where are thy tenants and thy followers?
Let us, that are poor petitioners, speak too:
melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return
Here.
hath the finest mad devil of jealousy in him,
Which in a set hand fairly is engross'd,
[Aside]                 What's that to him?
And with my hand at midnight held your head,
You great benefactors, sprinkle our society with
My lord, I'll tell you, that self bill is urged,
A limbeck only: when in swinish sleep
O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw with
Not fearing death, nor shrinking for distress,
Exit
Who dares not stand his foe, I'll be his friend,
But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
that he hath devised in these three chests of gold,
Exeunt Gentleman and Attendants
From reason's yielding, your fair self should make
The duke does greet you, general,
Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep,
Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold
Enter the Ghost of HASTINGS
Are wolvish, bloody, starved and ravenous.
I am glad I have found this napkin:
He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage,
qualities were level, Dian no queen of virgins, that
And comforts to your cause.
Whether for east or west: the dearth is great,
Breathes out of her: she hath not been entranced
Only foul words, and thereupon I will kiss thee.
That is, were I under the terms of death,
[Aside]  If I talk to him, with his innocent prate
My uses cry to me, I must serve my turn
Mine and your mistress! O, my lord Posthumus!
Whom I would save, had a most noble father!
she may perhaps call him half a score knaves or so:
we shall drink down all unkindness.
If you be king, why should not I succeed?
As little joy may you suppose in me.
that knew how to love himself. Ere I would say, I
Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king:
and forbid him to wear it. I will only be bold
To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen,
SCENE I. Belmont. Avenue to PORTIA'S house.
in his pew, set ratsbane by his porridge, made film
Why, so didst thou: seem they religious?
it wants matter to prevent so gross o'erreaching as
Cry 'O sweet creature!' and then kiss me hard,
wept for the death of a third husband. But it is
Hath blister'd her report: she is with child,
Sir, I did never win of you before.
Of these most brisk and giddy-paced times:
This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.
Bohemia stops his ears, and threatens them
To answer all the debt he owes to you
Who's there?
more tractable.
With hope to find the like event in love,
The moon methinks looks with a watery eye,
Where is thy lady? In a word, or else
And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate
If I would yield him my virginity,
Hated by one he loves, braved by his brother,
Without eyes, ears and harmful sound of words,
We must prepare to meet with Caliban.
And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen:
And see how one another lends content
Now, lords, for France, the enterprise whereof
Pardon, good father! good my mother, pardon!
Shall I speak a word in your ear?
When with a volley of our needless shot,
And make him stoop to the vale. 'Tis wonder
O abominable!
Enter TROILUS and CRESSIDA
To me the difference forges dread, your greatness
And warriors faint! why, 'twere perpetual shame.
Say not 'treasonous.'
Montjoy.
And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck.
Enter HELENA
Did I not meet thy friends? and did not they
I humbly thank you, well, well, well.
use her as the key of the cuckoldly rogue's coffer,
Behold her topp'd?
Mark, Jack.
Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue and groan:
And therefore shall it charm thy riotous tongue.
Her infinite cunning, with her modern grace,
The sleepers of the house? speak, speak!
Re-enter FLAVIUS, with the casket
It hath done to me the worst. Yet, for the love
For doing these fair rites of tenderness.
Time's pace is so hard that it seems the length of
O Lord, sir! Thick, thick, spare not me.
You, the great toe of this assembly?
That dog, that had his teeth before his eyes,
They will digest this harsh indignity.
My friends of noble touch, when I am forth,
Make thy demand aloud.
And bids what will take all.
your honour,
That shall civil sayings show:
Ay, and old York, and yet not satisfied.
I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
Find in myself no pity to myself?
As you did love, but as you fear'd him.
You shall perceive them make a mutual stand,
be Launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood.
broiled and eaten him too.
As the honey of Hybla, my old lad of the castle. And
Is to remove proud Somerset from the king,
What from the cape can you discern at sea?
Neighbours and friends, though bride and
Disguise, I see, thou art a wickedness,
To stale 't a little more.
Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
I think you are all mated or stark mad.
And had I twenty times so many foes,
Well excused:
liberal-conceited carriages, that's the French bet
Whose father bears the title of a king,--
Alack, bare-headed!
How green you are and fresh in this old world!
Then nightly sings the staring owl, 	Tu-whit,
Bid her send me presently a thousand pound:
Fire and brimstone!
But tell me, how was there a costard broken in a shin?
And flashing fire will follow.
I have been sometimes there.
When capital crimes, chew'd, swallow'd and digested,
Of the good queen, but the sharp thorny points
If spirits can assume both form and suit
And there is nothing left remarkable
Marry, and did, but if you be remember'd,
that thou wilt be a voluntary mute to my design. Be
Retire to win our purpose.
I answer is most false. The duke by law
Fight: excursions. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and others
ACT III
Ay, ay, ay, ay, 'tis too plain a case.
We will aboard to night. Why, how now, gentlemen!
But that in all my life, when I was a youth.
Nor to betray you any way to sorrow,
That hath dishonour'd all our family,
What call you the carriages?
Master Brook, I will not lie to you: I was at her
feared any, am vanquished by famine, not by valour.
And hang me up in chains!
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
Burn'd on the water: the poop was beaten gold,
To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
Or, having sworn too hard a keeping oath,
myself notice of my brother's purpose herein and
But that the extreme peril of the case,
The cardinal's and Sir Thomas Lovell's heads
By me invested, he compeers the best.
'Tis full three months since I did see him last,
But she, being mortal, of that boy did die,
And deny himself for Jove,
Have notice what we purpose. I shall break
Look, where the youngest wren of nine comes.
as it were, mean mischief and break a foul gap into
King Philip, listen to the cardinal.
This is the pent-house under which Lorenzo
You witch me in it,
Alas, poor ghost!
I took it for a man, often 'twould say
That I have had of thee!
When nobles are their tailors' tutors,
All hail, sweet madam, and fair time of day!
Or than for strength and safety of our country.
with idleness, or manured with industry, why, the
Both to defend my loyalty and truth
[Reads]  'For Jaquenetta,--so is the weaker vessel
Deliver'd you a paper that I should not:
Enter IAGO and RODERIGO
And many a man there is, even at this present,
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.
Your mother's hand shall right your mother's wrong.
These couchings and these lowly courtesies
He hath out-villained villany so far, that the
Thorough my rust! and how his pity
What should we speak of
When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too,
The British powers are marching hitherward.
See, see, thou hast shot off one of Taurus' horns.
Enter GLOUCESTER, and Servants with torches
His viands sparkling in a golden cup,
May make too great an act: for learn this, Silius,
For our proud empress, mighty Tamora:
Accept of him, or else you do me wrong:
There are yet missing of your company
Fair weather after you!
Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths,
That were some spite: my invocation
Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
But what we do determine oft we break.
Ca, ha! he bounds from the earth, as if his
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
gabble enough, and good enough. As for you,
Nay, hear me, Isabel.
Mistress Ford! I have had ford enough, I was thrown
To worship shadows and adore false shapes,
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
How?
That he should be my fool and I his fate.
And, toward the education of your daughters,
you, he hath a fair daughter, and to-morrow is her
Too terrible for the ear: the times have been,
The meered question: 'twas a shame no less
That stands on tricks when I am undisposed:
Ay, but to lose our bottles in the pool,--
Stabs him
Our cheeks and hollow eyes do witness it.
Now, Somerset, where is your argument?
To save your life in this extremity,
But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
We do believe thee: and beshrew my soul
I know not how it tastes, though it be dish'd
I looked for the chalky cliffs, but I could find no
That once were his, and is become as black
Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn,
Who is there?
in all companies! I would have, as one should say,
Calls not your counsels, but our natural goodness
Between compulsion and a brave respect!
It appears not in this confession: there's not one
On my soul, I'll speak but truth.
Go hence in debt: and therefore, like a cipher,
What, art thou lame?
Thou art like the harpy,
Say how I loved you, speak me fair in death,
Well, we may meet again.
He will be found like Brutus, like himself.
See, it stalks away!
Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move
Now Margaret's curse is fallen upon my head,
To have his head.
I came this way so happily: the king
Exeunt
A wonder!
That can with some discretion do my business,
beggar. Then have we here young Dizy, and young
Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his,
Into the trunks of men: thy currish spirit
My liege, one word.
Let's march without the noise of threatening drum,
carp as you may, for he looks like a poor, decayed,
Say, I would die.
Of soft petitions, pity and remorse,
O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,
A perilous gash, a very limb lopp'd off:
By this good light, this is a very shallow monster!
Pursued my life.
A slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint,
To knee his throne, and, squire-like, pension beg
men, and remain a beast with the beasts?
My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word,
Nay, I care not for their names, they owe me
When at their mothers' moist eyes babes shall suck,
Exit FENTON
Have with our needles created both one flower,
Your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul,
All is whole,
Why, here walk I in the black brow of night,
Thieves for their robbery have authority
It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads,
I will hold friends with you, lady.
Enter BUCKINGHAM
Come hither, Hubert. O my gentle Hubert,
Who should succeed the father but the son?
And we for fear compell'd to shut our shops.
able to woo her in good English.
Hath won the greatest favour of the commons,
Reading out of a paper
Achilles! a drayman, a porter, a very camel.
will awake it anon.
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
Each man to his stool, with that spur as he would to
The king is not himself, but basely led
thorn-bush, my thorn-bush, and this dog, my dog.
I am robbed, sir, and beaten, my money and apparel
This haste hath wings indeed.
And in his bosom spend my latter gasp:
Nor cowardly in retire: believe me, sirs,
That set thee on to this desert, am bound
My commendations great, whose merit's less.
I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir
Seeing the body
Legitimate Edgar, I must have your land:
Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
My queen, my life, my wife! O Imogen,
O heaven! How got she out? O treason of the blood!
In hollow bones of man, strike their sharp shins,
The numbers of our host and make discovery
I can create the rest: virtue and she
To undeck the pompous body of a king,
Is made with all due diligence
neither maid, widow, nor wife.
Remains in use with you. Our Italy
No, not a grize, for 'tis a vulgar proof,
Hector, in view of Trojans and of Greeks,
Enter PERICLES
Filths savour but themselves. What have you done?
Ha! Portia!
Will he conduct you through the heart of France,
My numbers lessened, and those few I have
Save that Euriphile must be Fidele.
O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
Go to: what quality are they of? Elbow is your
But as I travell'd hither through the land,
O, pardon me: 'twill do me good to walk.
That the bleak air, thy boisterous chamberlain,
As he stood by whilst I, his forlorn duchess,
With all my heart, and think me honoured
Which I was much unwilling to proceed in
That ran through Caesar's bowels, search this bosom.
That none shall have access unto Bianca
Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house and
Brutus shall lead, and we will grace his heels
Madam!
team of horse shall not pluck that from me, nor who
How now, Roderigo!
Let's whip these stragglers o'er the seas again,
These are portents, but yet I hope, I hope,
With me since first you knew me. But, I pray you,
[Sings]
I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
In our black sentence and proscription.
On silly women or poor passengers.
Alas, she hath from France too long been chased,
A sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats,
Young prince of Tyre, you have at large received
He should have braved the east an hour ago
Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant
Upon the pillow: hie thee, whiles I say
Sweet Monsieur Parolles!
To meet Mark Antony: sirrah Iras, go.
And we, in pity of the gentle king,
Even as an adder when she doth unroll
And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes,
ACT III
Benedicite!
I should have been a sore one then.
But to confirm my curses! Could I meet 'em
Exit Servingman
Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most any thing Alexas,
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
And therefore let me have him home with me.
Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn,
SCENE II. France. Before Orleans.
For choosing me when Clarence is in place.
As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland,
That the earth owes. I hear it now above me.
Sir, your glove.
not stay for him to kill him? have I not, at de place
Marry, sir, the pittie-ward, the park-ward, every
Against that great magician, damn'd Glendower,
And show fair duty to his majesty.
Pourquoi, my dear knight?
Dear brother, how shall Bona be revenged
So hath the business that I come to speak of.
They say it is a copy out of mine. Come, captain,
We'll be before our welcome.
Whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief--
I see the play so lies
How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see
Alarum. Retreat. Excursions. Exeunt
I kiss his conquering hand: tell him, I am prompt
Into the channel, till the lowest stream
But on thy side I may not be too forward
There is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet
go and vetch me in my closet un boitier vert, a box,
Upon the maidenhead of our affairs.
They have travell'd all the night? Mere fetches,
High sparks of honour in thee have I seen.
And the Athenian woman by his side:
Till I can find occasion of revenge.
then, peace be with him.
Where, like a sweet melodious bird, it sung
Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum.
Prithee, no more prattling, go. I'll hold. This is
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
Exit ALEXAS
Then, by myself--
I am not weary, and 'tis long to night:
No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone.
It is the witness still of excellency
Something not worth in me such rich beholding
But for the sunset of my brother's son
You owe me no subscription: then let fall
Would you would bear your fortune like a man!
The apparition comes: I knew your father,
Now, by thy looks
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
O, negligent and heedless discipline!
Unveiling
Well, come what will, I'll tarry at home.
was the very day that young Hamlet was born, he that
Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
And cracking the strong warrant of an oath,
They say the French count has done most honourable service.
Alas, poor man! a million of beating may come to a
And consequently thy rude hand to act
Subdue and poison this young maid's affections?
cause between an orange wife and a fosset-seller,
Sun, hide thy beams! Timon hath done his reign.
For what his eyes eat only.
Exeunt
And such a one as he, who puts his 'shall,'
That such a valiant company are fled.
He was your enemy, ever spake against
To whom I am subdued, are but light to me,
Not working with the eye without the ear,
To haste thus fast, to find us unprovided.
the happiness of life.
Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,
--give, when she is able to overtake seventeen years
That for thy mother's fault art thus exposed
I' the parts of France, till term of eighteen months
Nay, do so, for, indeed, I have lost command,
Your swords are now too massy for your strengths
Ay, noble lord.
darkness. When thou rannest up Gadshill in the
Why, Percy I killed myself and saw thee dead.
'Tis past enduring.
he passes some humours and careers.
That Maine which by main force Warwick did win,
I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever
What, what! good cheer! Why, how now, Charmian!
The piece of tender air, thy virtuous daughter,
And dress'd myself in such humility
Paris is lost, the state of Normandy
My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!
Two bosoms interchained with an oath,
To mend her kissing with!
Exit
Be brief in it, to the castle, for my writ
As much unto my good lord chamberlain!
thee for't.
Enter LORENZO
have not ballads made on you all and sung to filthy
You see it lawful, then: it is no more,
Now, my lord, what shall we do, if we perceive
And nightly, meadow-fairies, look you sing,
Will make this sting the sooner. Cardinal Campeius
another man is a fool when he dedicates his
But get thee back, my soul is too much charged
Away with him! and do as I command ye.
Exeunt
Come, brother, let us to the highest of the field,
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
[Aside]  I wish not so, unless it had been the fall
Exeunt
Absolute madness could so far have raved
Hast thou, spirit,
The mercy that was quick in us but late,
for consulships?
I will converse with iron-witted fools
For honesty and decent carriage,
Goes the king hence to-day?
That dwell in vegetives, in metals, stones,
My speech and what is done, tell him he has
Its tenderness, and make itself a pastime
Witness my son, now in the shade of death,
According to my birth. What do you say?
see thee pass thy punto, thy stock, thy reverse, thy
About, about,
I am hurt.
My lord,--
Say'st thou me so? What colour is this cloak of?
if it were at liberty, 'twould, sure, southward.
All these are saved if thou wilt fly away.
By my knavery, if I had it, then I were, but if you
Hark thee, Dardanius.
But keep it till you woo another wife,
How! let me see:
His study is his tilt-yard, and his loves
Her husband banish'd, she imprison'd: all
court, the women so besiege us? Bless me, what a
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
With heads, and not with hands, those whom you curse
So please your majesty,
Ten thousand swelling toads, as many urchins,
[Reads]  'With a small compassed cape:'
Not utter'd by base sale of chapmen's tongues:
I follow, mine host, I follow. Good even and
To make this contract grow: but barren hate,
That at her hands which the king's King forbids.
As merry as crickets, my lad. But hark ye, what
True, worthy Banquo, he is full so valiant,
Mother, you have my father much offended.
Which of you know Ford of this town?
For nothing but his majesty's approach.
county. What fashion will you wear the garland of?
On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.
Turn head, and stop pursuit, for coward dogs
Fare thee well. Thou art a piece of virtue, and
Pass away frowning.
Without some image of the affected merit.
Exeunt
We did, my lord, weeping and commenting
And give sweet passage to my sinful soul!
What, will he come?
By gar, nor I too: there is no bodies.
Enter BRABANTIO, OTHELLO, IAGO, RODERIGO, and Officers
My fellow-scholars, and to keep those statutes
And on the winking of authority
Courteous lord, one word.
Speak it here:
Of whom I hope to make much benefit,
Alas, I know not, how gets the tide in?
The cry is still 'They come:' our castle's strength
store the world they played for.
Let me go and try:
Now he is gone, my lord, you need not fear.
SCENE IV. Hall in Capulet's house.
And this same needy man must sell it me.
With one of Priam's daughters.
your tongues, and not a word more.
Haled out to murder: myself on every post
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
Upon the next occasion that we meet,
Which I'll not call a creature of thy place,
Iden, kneel down.
Did scandal many a holy tear, took pity
[Within]                 Come back: what mean you?
Our haste from hence is of so quick condition
speak one to another, so we seem to know, is to
When I said, banish him, I said 'twas pity.
Come, sir, are you ready for death?
Their bodies, even to loathing, for they so stunk,
When down her weedy trophies and herself
Why, mistress, sure my master is horn-mad.
shall seem to notify unto her.
beshrew them!
Here come the lords of Buckingham and Derby.
And rob in the behalf of charity.
Pompey, return it again: you shall have time to
Your presence glads our days: honour we love,
Not your demand, it values not your asking:
Lord Lucius, and you princes of the Goths,
He may show what outward courage he will, but I
And treacherously hast thou vanquish'd him,
SCENE VII. London. The palace.
But there's no goodness in thy face: if Antony
Exeunt
My Lord of Norfolk,--
And now I remember, my lord, you gave
if my brother wrought by my pity, it should not be
Flow'd with her beauty once: 'tis shrewdly ebb'd,
Five and twenty, sir.
Why, then they are not dead:
To CORIOLANUS
And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame,
So and no other, as yourself commanded:
please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.
The shepherd's note since we have left our throne
seem to do that fearfully which you commit
He's never any thing but your true servant.
Away betimes, before his forces join,
Which here, in this most desolate isle, else falls
Dies
Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.
If ever you have look'd on better days,
ACT I
Maiden, no remedy.
I should know that voice: it should be--but he is
Till Harry's back-return again to France:
Where is she and her son? tell me, who knows.
Exit with Servant
SCENE III. Rome. A room in Marcius' house.
Fare thee well.
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and GRUMIO
and father. This villain of mine comes under the
And his whole kingdom into desolation.
And then away to Venice to your friend,
serve you to mend your shoes: come, wherefore should
Friend, you! pray you, a word: do not you follow
What, are the brothers parted?
Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons,
How, sir! are you in earnest then, my lord?
More than pertains to feats of broil and battle,
pen down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my
My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee.
Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
Come, sister: I am press'd down with conceit--
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour,
Have I laid my brain in the sun and dried it, that
That joineth Rouen unto her countrymen,
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
Of grave and austere quality, tender down
That every man should take his own,
And so am I for Rosalind.
With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty,
She thanks you.
blessing of God till I have issue o' my body, for
That makes these odds all even.
Exit
Send for your daughter by your servant here:
Nathaniel's coat, sir, was not fully made,
Withdraw you hence, my lord, I'll follow you.
it when I go from home, welcomed home with it when
Nay, wherefore should they, since that I myself
As thou unworthy to be call'd her servant.
Et vous aussi, votre serviteur.
[Within]  Can you tell for whose sake?
Exeunt
Would, each to other and all loves to both,
But in thy fortunes am unlearn'd and strange.
Never?
idiot, patch!
To Germany, there with the emperor
Of happy holding her.
M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.
And what of him, Tranio?
Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend
He that commends me to mine own content
i' the church, I would have swinged him, or he
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
How the dispatch is made, and in what fashion,
understand him, unless some one among us whom we
Are then most humble, I have no ambition
And in the Capitol and senate's right,
Brutus, I do observe you now of late:
Diminish'd to her cock, her cock, a buoy
Against this man, whose honesty the devil
At point to sink for food. But what is this?
An I thought that, I'ld forswear it. I'll ride home
I mentioned a son o' the king's, which Florizel
I'll gild it with the happiest terms I have.
Here, my lord.
Let him be made a coverture for the wars!
shift for one, and so, God's curse light upon you
He hath been most notoriously abused.
The ruddiness upon her lip is wet,
ANTIPHOLUS
'The fiend, the fiend:' he led me to that place.
Making it light to Cassio. Cassio, I love thee
For he that holds his kingdom holds the law,
Prove our commodities. O dear son Edgar,
Saw'st thou the melancholy Lord Northumberland?
So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I
Where is my mother! why, she is within,
Where is it! taken from us it is: a hundred upon
What fates impose, that men must needs abide,
methinks they are such a gentle nation that, but for
Certainly
The duchess, by his subornation,
Whether dost thou profess thyself, a knave or a fool?
And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale
I'll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit the
do you know me?
And I am struck with sorrow. Take him up.
You promised knighthood to our forward son:
Whose dreadful swords were never drawn in vain,
His queen with child makes her desire--
With oily painting. Shall I draw the curtain?
thee away, translate thy life into death, thy
A soul as even as a calm: pray, think us
And flourish'd after, I'ld not do't, but since
Thus have I yielded up into your hand
Iago, look with care about the town,
Because we ever have been near the king.
With mill-stones.
Go to, go to, you have known what you should not.
SCENE I. The same.
I have heard
The cover of the wings of grasshoppers,
'Here follow her vices.'
With franker spirit: therefore, as I am bound,
It shall be done.
You may have every day enough of Hector
I evermore did love you, Hermia,
And squarest thy life according. Thou'rt condemn'd:
I am ambitious for a motley coat.
I would they'ld fight i' the fire or i' the air,
Are not you he?
I am in parliament pledge for his truth
Do you see this, O God?
And I will go and purse the ducats straight,
To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
[Within]  Give us a light there, ho!
Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,
What then became of them I cannot tell
Why say you so? looks he not for supply?
And his love Thisbe, very tragical mirth.'
Exit
Crying 'Long live! hail, Caesar!'
And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life.
They are, my lord.
As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems,
And make us wade even in our kindred's blood,
Well, well, well,--
Exeunt MOTH and COSTARD
No, my noble lord,
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
Hopeless and helpless doth AEgeon wend,
and water-rats, water-thieves and land-thieves, I
I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair.
Which holds him much to have.
Stay yet. You vile abominable tents,
SCENE II. A field between the two camps.
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep,
Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio
persuading me to it.
Would all themselves laugh mortal.
Than love that's hired! What, goest thou back? thou shalt
Covering discretion with a coat of folly,
And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you.
[To BONA]  And, gracious madam, in our king's behalf,
Hark! Peace!
speciously one of them, Mistress Ford, good heart,
Strikes him
Enter LADY MACBETH
My father's land, as was my father's will.
Thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies
And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell,
against her heir.
her that's foul and foolish?
That our French gallants shall to-day draw out,
Fetch Desdemona hither.
And welcome, nephews, from successful wars,
your ladyships, you may see the end, for the best is
Good Master Mustardseed, I know your patience well:
Giving myself a voluntary wound
As thy eye-beams, when their fresh rays have smote
I wish my brother make good time with him,
Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words?
But since he hath
Devesting them for bed, and then, but now--
Exit Boy
The sound is going away, let's follow it, and
Exeunt ANTONY and TREBONIUS
Her aid she promised and assured success:
As is the razor's edge invisible,
We know your drift: speak what?
Detest them, curse them: yet 'tis greater skill
If the dull brainless Ajax come safe off,
Of things to come at large. It is supposed
No, they were well at peace when I did leave 'em.
I say, by sorcery he got this isle,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work,
The dove will peck the estridge, and I see still,
Well, come to me to-morrow.
Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report
Exeunt
That power I have, discharge, and let them go
Send to his brother, fetch that gallant hither,
ANTIPHOLUS
Here in our presence! dare you be so bold?
But small to greater matters must give way.
To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us:
Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
Thou hast mistaken his letter. Come, lords, away.
We do not come as minding to contest you,
At every joint and motive of her body.
Into his study of imagination,
We will untread the steps of damned flight,
He that knows better how to tame a shrew,
And found her wondrous cold, but I sent to her,
Addition of his envy! Say, good Caesar,
Alas, my lord, I cannot fight, for God's sake, pity
back again.
But that you shall sustain moe new disgraces,
They seize and blindfold him
I know my lord hath spent of Timon's wealth,
she will, say what she will, take all, pay all, go
Mercy itself and frees all faults.
And make them blind with tributary tears:
Where chance may nurse or end it. Take it up.
But I do love thee! and when I love thee not,
of fern-seed, we walk invisible.
When the suspicious head of theft is stopp'd:
Out of a casement.
[Reads]  'Item, It is further agreed between them,
I have.
Canst not read?
name, Master tapster?
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally,
must leave them, and seek some better service:
Ah, foul shrewd news! beshrew thy very heart!
And did you see the handkerchief?
As if I had received them for the hire
Yet did repent me, after more advice,
Or wilt thou ride? thy horses shall be trapp'd,
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
The Duke of Suffolk is the first, and claims
After the battle let George Stanley die.
Whom leprosy o'ertake!--i' the midst o' the fight,
Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth, it catches.
My noble father,
Now, by the gods, I pity his misfortune,
I dare not, sir
Her sister Katharina welcomed you withal?
Yet will I add an honour, a great patience.
Exit
I doubt not of your wisdom.
One of Lord Timon's men.
And he will look as hollow as a ghost,
I do assure you, 'tis against my will.
O this woodcock, what an ass it is!
And it is meet I presently set forth.
That while Verona by that name is known,
How many prodigal bits have slaves and peasants
Most wrongfully accused your substitute,
His insolence can brook to be commanded
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
Ha! not for the wide world.
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
Enter Host and SIMPLE
O God, which this blood madest, revenge his death!
my prayers, but I cannot go thither.
You know me well, and herein spend but time
sir.
[Aside]  His steel was in debt, it went o' the
too wenchless.
Lascivious Goth, and all the bitterest terms
Why, all this business
Exit ALEXAS
And, gladly quaked, hear more, where the
Love's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing,
I would I had some flowers o' the spring that might
And comment then upon his sudden death.
Say that she rail, why then I'll tell her plain
Unworthy as I am, to follow you.
The traces of the smallest spider's web,
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS, and MUTIUS, with ALARBUS
And was a common gamester to the camp.
Bid them prepare within:
Nor would I wish you.
And here the bracelet of the truest princess
Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly.
Tell me, thou unknown power,--
Places remote enough are in Bohemia,
Is not your father grown incapable
Heaven would that she these gifts should have,
No king of England, if not king of France.
My pity hath been balm to heal their wounds,
So the poor chicken should be sure of death.
RICHARD
degree of my betters, and yet I will not compare
In thee there is not half an hour of life,
If I had given you this at over-night,
day he wrestled?
And ask of Cymbeline what boon thou wilt,
This, in the name of God, I promise here:
There is a thousand Hectors in the field:
Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
Of double-fatal yew against thy state,
Think him a great way fool, solely a coward,
me die, for I have lived long enough: this is the
Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull.
Exeunt DUKE OF VENICE, Senators, Officers,  and c
It pleased them to think me worthy of Pompion the
That e'er devotion tender'd! What shall I do?
This is much credit to you.
Enter MARIA
That ever hath but clipp'd his body, is dearer
Our fortune on the sea is out of breath,
And pawn mine honour for their safety: since
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
Ford's wife: use your art of wooing, win her to
Come on, Panthino: you shall be employ'd
Where foxes, geese: you are no surer, no,
fortune, honour for his valour, and death for his
Kent! father! sisters! What, i' the storm? i' the night?
'Tis thought the king is dead, we will not stay.
And the country proverb known,
The George, profaned, hath lost his holy honour,
But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks
So, by your circumstance, I fear you'll prove.
good voice, sir, what say you?
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
Nay, sir, less than a pound shall serve me for
Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty,
Are like the Trojan horse was stuff'd within
Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup,
Enchased with all the honours of the world?
I was, an't like your majesty.
To hear this of him, and could wish he were
To see such lovers, Thurio, as yourself:
Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
any image of offence done to any man.
If it be, sir, I pray you, eat none of it.
Where would you had remain'd until this time,
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
Good my lord,
Finely put off!
If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse
Ha! I'll tell thee what,
That quaint in green she shall be loose enrobed,
O sweetest, fairest lily!
For England!
The image of it gives me content already, and I
What both you spur and stop.
Where one but goes abreast: keep then the path,
Lechery, by this hand, an index and obscure prologue
He has kill'd me, mother:
And even now my burthen'd heart would break,
SCENE IV. A street.
ne veux point que vous abaissiez votre grandeur en
Advancing
And that's great marvel, loving a light wench.
More cruel to your good report than grateful
Ere in our own house I do shade my head,
And therefore put I on the countenance
And stain the sun with fog, as sometime clouds
Old Mantuan, old Mantuan! who understandeth thee
Thou art my friend, that know'st my tongue so well.
dragon's tail, and my nativity was under Ursa
Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven,
And does not Toby take you a blow o' the lips then?
And perfected by the swift course of time.
For yet may England curse my wretched reign.
For quick accumulation of renown,
Right, if doing nothing be death by the law.
But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.
Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
Keep off aloof with worthless emulation.
What simpleness is this! I come, I come!
Still seem as does the king.
Exit
Sir, the queen.
Are at our backs, and therefore hence amain.
Embowell'd will I see thee by and by:
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
Buck! I would I could wash myself of the buck!
This way, my lord, for this way lies the game.
May't please your highness sit.
you, base peasants, do ye believe him? will you
Than with your weapons.
When evil deeds have their permissive pass
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me: I would
Who dare cross 'em,
Gave him their heirs, as pages follow'd him
with him but the drum and the fife, and now had he
Though women all above:
And all the unlook'd for issue of their bodies,
Looks in a glass, that shows what future evils,
That she is worthy, I know.
Is, as in mockery, set: the spring, the summer,
What, are you both agreed?
And so am I for Phebe.
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
I' the war do grow together: grant that, and tell me,
For amplest credence.
How proud, how peremptory, and unlike himself?
Yea, curse his better angel from his side,
I set him there, sir: but his own disorders
To tread a measure with her on this grass.
Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes,
Bond-slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be.
Swill'd with the wild and wasteful ocean.
We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two,
And what in us hath seem'd ridiculous,--
Helen's heart good now, ha! Would I could see
This way the king will come, this is the way
Together sung 'Te Deum.' So she parted,
Re-enter CURIO and Clown
any thing, and call it purchase. Bardolph stole a
Hop forty paces through the public street,
But by my coming I have made you happy.
Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York!
But stay thee, 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
should have borne the humoured letter to her, but I
That apprehends no further than this world,
they say barnes are blessings.
off. Je quand sur le possession de France, et quand
And she not hear of it?
Madam, 'tis now in tune.
Pray you, walk near: I'll speak with you anon.
Lord chancellor in your place.
I am merrier to die than thou art to live.
come on? how then? Can honour set to a leg? no: or
Cannot induce you to attend my words,
Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high.
for a swine: 'tis pretty, it is well.
[Aside]  True, from a gentleman to a fool.
Pray you, arise,
I am no strumpet, but of life as honest
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
Who starves the ears she feeds, and makes them hungry,
That fled the snares of watchful tyranny,
Call in more women. When I am dead, good wench,
As Hymen's lamps shall light you.
To come to Padua. Know you not the cause?
That he will neither know how to maintain it,
So I bequeath a happy peace to you
Bloody, 'tis necessary he should die:
SCENE II. A street.
Stand by my side, you whom the gods have made
When he comes back, you demi-puppets that
A word of this. What, ho! within! come forth!
To see my friends in Padua, but of all
Tell him he hath made a match with such a wrangler
Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
Never, my lord, therefore prepare to die.
Upon my soul,'tis true, sir.
And make triumphant fires, strew flowers before them:
He will, forsooth, have all my prisoners,
Prithee, let him.
fledged, and then it is the complexion of them all
That leads towards Mantua, whither they are fled:
They knock
he will make. Well I am sorry for your niece. Shall
What wood is this before us?
Now, by the sky that hangs above our heads,
Over the nasty sty,--
Bring him before us.
What, fifty of my followers at a clap!
for you, and there's an end.
Thy brother Marcus tenders on thy lips:
But this lies all within the will of God,
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
When waterdrops have worn the stones of Troy,
Now heaven send thee good fortune!
deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth.
Help not all, yet do they ease the heart.
will fit any question.
The noble duke hath sworn his coming is
Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd
Was ever king that joy'd an earthly throne,
While she chats him: the kitchen malkin pins
Is it so concluded?
The name of honour more than I fear death.
Her sweet perfections with one self king!
Receive them then, the tribute that I owe,
If thou be'st death, I'll give thee England's treasure,
I think he will stand very strong with us.
I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind,
I held the sword, and he did run on it.
I will not do them wrong, I rather choose
here thou viewest, beholdest, surveyest, or seest,
say 'Welcome!'
Most grossly, by his own!
He's quoted for a most perfidious slave,
That any did. Had we pursued that life,
O this learning, what a thing it is!
When she first met Mark Antony, she pursed up
Exeunt CYMBELINE and Lords
O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
Was wont to cheer his dad in mutinies?
The word is short, but not so short as sweet,
Most true, 'tis right, you were so, Alisander.
and go to buffets, for moving such a dish of
All mine own folly--the society,
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple:
My lord,--
Tom hath been scared out of his good wits: bless
With all my heart.
not heard of the proclamation, have you?
Go, you wild bedfellow, you cannot soothsay.
Can never turn the swan's black legs to white,
The DUKE and Senators sitting at a table, Officers attending
Enter LEONTES, HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, POLIXENES, CAMILLO, and Attendants
Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
Of no esteem: I, dreading that her purpose
See, see! they join, embrace, and seem to kiss,
I fear you have done yourself some wrong: a word.
O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of
Bias and thwart, not answering the aim,
clock. Our general cast us thus early for the love
Should know we were afoot.
What mean your graces? Good my friends, consider
Do you cry, 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and
To Eltham will I, where the young king is,
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, and the BISHOP OF ELY
Pray, be content:
votarist: you have told me she hath received them
And take a lodging fit to entertain
Set on thy wife to observe: leave me, Iago:
To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood,
Fall into the compass of a praemunire,
Now, as I live, I will. My nobler friends,
And fall thy edgeless sword: despair, and die!
Please you to do't,
I see a yielding in the looks of France,
SCENE V. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
So, so, my lord.
DON
The moment is thy death. Away! by Jupiter,
Lorenzo, and thy love.
Which, howsoever rude exteriorly,
Say, how grows it due?
Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this?
Marry, to--Come, captain, will you go?
But long I will not be Jack out of office:
Not I	what are you?
so earnest
Messala!
Your children yet unborn and unbegot,
And lasting fealty to the new-made king.
Most true. The will! Let's stay and hear the will.
And I embrace this fortune patiently,
I'll not bereave you of your servant.
where to have her.
Our colours do return in those same hands
That I have said to some my standers by
provoker of three things.
He wants advice.
What else may hap to time I will commit,
To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
Marry, bachelor,
He does well to commend it himself, there are no
pret, car ce soldat ici est dispose tout a cette
I am a gentleman of Verona, sir,
What is it?
Are in the poorest thing superfluous:
For Dickon thy master is bought and sold.'
I did very well note him.
Some to the wars, to try their fortune there,
I'll fortune-tell you.
Razing the characters of your renown,
As we greet modern friends withal, and say,
These weeds are memories of those worser hours:
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Was ever father so bemoan'd his son?
That shall reverberate all as loud as thine,
'Tis not the devil's crest.
I sent your message, who return'd her thanks
Shall I be flouted thus by dunghill grooms?
Dighton and Forrest, whom I did suborn
O night, which ever art when day is not!
He fell upon me ere admitted: then
The French leap over the walls in their shirts.  Enter, several ways, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, half ready, and half unready
How did he take it? who did taste to him?
The emptying of our fathers' luxury,
choose me a husband. O me, the word 'choose!' I may
That threw her in the sea. Make a fire within:
Let me not hold my tongue, let me not, Hubert,
Of such possessions and so high esteem,
Exit PHILOSTRATE
rash, then must we look to receive from his age,
You Dukes of Orleans, Bourbon, and of Berri,
I owe you none till I receive the chain.
swain, that base minnow of thy mirth,'--
And let me buy your friendly help thus far,
perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little
We have done our course, there's money for your pains:
We let the people know't.
No, my most worthy master, in whose breast
Very good. Give it nothing, I pray you, for it is
against it, for man is a giddy thing, and this is my
I would fain say, bleed tears, for I am sure my
Stanley, look to your wife, if she convey
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
For the wide world's revenue.
What seal is that, that hangs without thy bosom?
My lord desires you presently: my news
Thou art sensible in nothing but blows, and so is an
In your protectorship you did devise
If I speak like a captain.
And happily we might be interrupted.
Music within
What is he, Biondello?
Is foul as slander.
Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor:
the earth?
To greet the warriors. Sweet Helen, I must woo you
Hard to seem won: but I was won, my lord,
You breathe these dead news in as dead an ear.
the Garter.
All dark and comfortless. Where's my son Edmund?
For ending thee no sooner. Thou hast nor youth nor age,
Countercheque Quarrelsome, the sixth, the Lie with
I am commanded home. Get you away,
Into our presence, where this heaven of beauty
Enter a Messenger
How I convey my shame out of thine eyes
Though he be honourable,--
She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?
With Cassio's suit: therefore be merry, Cassio,
The juice of Egypt's grape shall moist this lip:
Whispers
The devil will shake her chain and fright us with it.
The pride upon them, that their very labour
Must murder wives much better than themselves
Enter GONERIL and EDMUND
teach her to know my meaning: for maids, well
O, lady, lady, shame would have it hid!
Cyprus black as e'er was crow,
Which mannerly devotion shows in this,
You are old enough now, and yet, methinks, you lose.
And weigh thy value with an even hand:
And would not dash me with their ragged sides,
Enter EARL OF SALISBURY and a Welsh Captain
exhibition, but for the whole world,--why, who would
This many summers in a sea of glory,
Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
And plead his love-suit to her gentle heart?
Run to my Lord of Suffolk, let him know
I can scarce speak to thee, thou'lt not believe
Have you conspired, have you with these contrived
But as you shake off one to take another,
dangerous courtesy.
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, and Attendants
And give your hearts to, when they once perceive
And is't not pity, O my grieved friends,
Exit
Suggested us to make. Therefore, ladies,
As my ripe revenue and due by birth
Uncover, dogs, and lap.
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
Nerissa, that I cannot choose one nor refuse none?
Ere it was ask'd, but when the way was made,
Hath been between this lady and this lord.
Come, let us go, and make thy father blind,
She that is queen of Tunis, she that dwells
Was set in worse than gold. They have in England
If you suppose as fearing you it shook.
Know him! ay.
The elected deer before thee?
And when he says he is, say that he dreams,
My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
The mailed Mars shall on his altar sit
Exit
Exit GLENDOWER
But nature to her bias drew in that.
Why, look where he comes, and my good man too: he's
With fear and horrid flight.
Let him be told so, lest perchance he think
You have said now.
It is in vain, he will not speak to you.
O that I had my wish!
cowards! Let them speak: if they speak more or
A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.
Why sir, how do you bear with me?
And turn'd my captive state to liberty,
Reads
Most venerable worth, did I devotion.
But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee!
Prove them, and I lie open to the law:
If she be furnish'd with a mind so rare,
Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea
Exit FRIAR LAURENCE
But like a comet I was wonder'd at,
How's this? how's this? Some more, be sage.
In states unborn and accents yet unknown!
When holy Harry died, and my sweet son.
Though now you have no sea-cap on your head.
Come on, brave soldiers: doubt not of the day,
A heavy sight!
'Faith, my lord. I spoke it but according to the
'Item: She hath no teeth.'
Might be a copy to these younger times,
Run when you will, the story shall be changed:
And writ as little beard.
Rome's emperor, and nephew, break the parle,
Low alarums
That Cranmer is return'd with welcome,
So show her merit, that did miss her love?
Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors,
Welcome, brave captain and victorious lord!
Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids,
As if his life lay on't.
'His eyes do show his days are almost done.'
For thus his royalty doth speak in me.
not have come.
Are you a woman?
We shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow?
Go thy ways, Kate:
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
And here it rests, that you'll procure the vicar
our Roman power: your lord and Titus Lartius are set
Help, masters, help! my master is mad.
for him, that he hath wrote this to feel my
There thou prickest her with a thistle.
As husbands have. What is it that they do
As smiles upon the forehead of this action
Noise within
When it is paid, bring your true friend along.
BRUTUS and CASSIUS whisper
Measureless liar, thou hast made my heart
You sad-faced men, people and sons of Rome,
Sir, sometimes, when he is not Antony,
The law I bear no malice for my death,
One step I have advanced thee, if thou dost
Exterior form, outward accoutrement,
this man made you, sir?
Antony,
Be call'd Posthumus Leonitus, and
[Aside]  How say you by that? Still harping on my
I saw her once
Not in my husband's nose.
I hope so.
the love of Juno, let's go.
To the direction just.
Enter a Lady
With other virtues, which I'll keep from boast:
'Tis grace indeed.
one: 'What cur is that?' says another: 'Whip him
Experience, O, thou disprovest report!
There be some such, no question.
And his great person perish.
'Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?'
O proper stuff!
Though in and of him there be much consisting,
And they have wish'd that Lucius were their emperor.
To beguile many and be beguiled by one:
Lo, now, if it lay in their hands to make me a
great cause of the night is lack of the sun, that
variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
That none of you may live your natural age,
An otter, Sir John! Why an otter?
The pauses that he makes.
Exit CATESBY
To line his enterprise: but if you go,--
Good my lord, pardon me:
You are deceived, my substance is not here,
Be ruled, you shall not go.
'Tis their fresh supplies.
I'll not fail, if I live.
Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence,
If we should serve with horse and mares together,
Now, what admittance, lord?
And in his parties, his alliance, let him be
ANTIPHOLUS
Ah, ha! does she so?
Exit with Soldiers
And his succession granted Rome a tribute,
In what part of your body pleaseth me.
world! world! thus is the poor agent despised!
The king, sir,--
Forslow no longer, make we hence amain.
You do yourselves
please all.'
Our trivial difference loud, we do commit
IAGO offers to stab EMILIA
I'll find a thousand shifts to get away:
Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
Stay: the king.
Plantagenet, I will, and like thee, Nero,
This night he makes a supper, and a great one,
Drop on you both! a south-west blow on ye
And doubting lest that he had err'd or sinn'd,
And much I need to help you, if need were,
m'en vais a la cour--la grande affaire.
She had just cause.
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
The venom clamours of a jealous woman
She is corrupted, changed and won from thee,
And what hath mass or matter, by itself
Speak, Agrippa.
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
Thy other Edward dead, to quit my Edward,
How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
If to preserve this vessel for my lord
The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim
Here is the sister of the man condemn'd
With these you bear already.
What will you do, good grey-beard? break a lance,
With sweet enlargement doth dismiss me hence:
So please your highness to behold the fight.
I must excuse myself, Master Ford.
There is our captain: we'll follow him that's fled,
Where are your mess of sons to back you now?
[Aside]  Why, I were best to cut my left hand off
To hold your slaughtering hands and keep the peace.
else being drowned, we will inherit here: here,
Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
Lustig, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the
Why, 'Jack, boy! ho! boy!' and as much news as
And will not let me welcome this good news.
With bleared visages, come forth to view
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
She would mock me into air, O, she would laugh me
John Duke of Alencon, Anthony Duke of Brabant,
good armour, and now will he lie ten nights awake,
The liberal opposition of our spirits,
Let them hang.
Here's a good world the while! Why who's so gross,
If that the injuries be justly weigh'd
And she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin.
lungs, bladders full of imposthume, sciaticas,
we fought, I doubt we should have been too young for them.
am so good a proficient in one quarter of an hour,
Her bed is India, there she lies, a pearl:
Neither to you nor any one, having no witness to
Here comes the king.
Exeunt
Why, Warwick, canst thou speak against thy liege,
No more to undertake it, I will work him
Had been the regent there instead of me,
Dost thou know her?
Ay, the best for the worst. But, sirrah, what say
A man, the worst about you.
And these external manners of laments
Shall blow ten thousand souls to heaven or hell,
So old and white as this. O! O! 'tis foul!
dog again.
But when his fair course is not hindered,
it too, or else I shall seek my wit in my shoulders.
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
Thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it.
Nay, answer, if you can: the Frenchmen are our
Please ye we may contrive this afternoon,
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
While the beast lived, was killed with hunting him.
Still growing in a majesty and pomp, the which
Besides yourself, to like of. But I prattle
True, Clifford, and that's Richard Duke of York.
A stanchless avarice that, were I king,
I fear, too many curses on their beads
contents, as in part I understand them, are to blame.
Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder,
comes that the wenches say 'God damn me,' that's as
villain, he's bound by the indenture of his oath to
Or some of you shall smoke for it in Rome.
[Aside]  He lies, for I invented it myself.
make me tell them how much I lack of a man.
And bear this work of heaven with patience:
How joyful am I made by this contract!
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy,
Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
She hath herself not only well defended
Let there be sung 'Non nobis' and 'Te Deum,'
If he do break the smallest particle
For trust not him that hath once broken faith,--
Madam, 's enough for you:
Most pestilent to the bearing, and, to bear 'em,
Why, true, he means to make a puppet of thee.
[To DUKE SENIOR]  To you I give myself, for I am yours.
I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject,
Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you? Your
So aged as this seems.
And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
That wisdom, loyalty and mere dislike
Here is a box, I had it from the queen:
To have it added to the faults of mine,
She will find him by starlight. Here she comes, and
If never, yet that Time himself doth say
At careful nursing. Go thy ways, good mariner:
Where it may see itself. This is not strange at all.
Or, at the least, make them his enemies.
Or know what ground's made happy by his breath.
Should not be able to encounter mine.
Exit, with the body
Uncle of Winchester, I pray, read on.
And leave them honeyless.
Fie, fie upon her! she's able to freeze the god
SCENE I. Ely House.
Then shall the realm of Albion
faint a number, and for our disgrace, his own
In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
last devours them all at a mouthful: such whales
Before I were forced out!
O hear me, Isabella!
He shall not carry him: I'll be ta'en too,
For suddenly a grievous sickness took him,
Now, until the break of day,
That King Leontes shall not have an heir
And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,--
I do perceive't: there's nothing in her yet:
I have drawn her picture with my voice.
Let it be so: and you, my noble prince,
Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron!
Fly, brother. Torches, torches! So, farewell.
Be it so.
Sir?
Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
ill-rooted already: the least wind i' the world
Cast off his chains of bondage and embrace
You may discern the place.
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
I do not say 'thwack our general,' but he was always
Unarm'd, and unresolved to beat them back:
And I will undertake all these to teach.
ANTIPHOLUS
I heard thee say even now, thou likedst not that,
As self-neglecting.
The queen is comfortless, and we forgetful
When by the Archbishop of Canterbury
O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
and skirts, round underborne with a bluish tinsel:
extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage.
In these two princely boys! They are as gentle
always count you my deer.
Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry.
You had not found me here so musical:
To strew thy green with flowers: the yellows, blues,
SCENE I. Before Orleans.
this box, and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
I love him not, nor fear him, there's my creed:
Sing it: 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it
A wave o' the sea, that you might ever do
Mars dote on you for his novices! what will ye do?
As we are mock'd with art.
SCENE IV. Tarsus. A room in the Governor's house.
What wouldst thou have, boor? what: thick-skin?
Had squared me to thy counsel! then, even now,
To tyrannous hate! Swell, bosom, with thy fraught,
and buck-baskets! Well, I will proclaim myself
And pardon us the interruption
When miracles have by the greatest been denied.
SCENE II. Windsor Park.
Enter ROMEO and JULIET above, at the window
Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us,
Sir, amen.
Come to the pedlar,
Exit
Would let her out in saucers: sweet misprision!
No more light answers. Let our officers
Aside
In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then.
When turtles tread, and rooks, and daws,
What need you note it? pray you, keep your way:
Sirrah, fetch drier logs:
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
Was not the Duke of Orleans thy foe?
We'll answer.
[Reads]  'If any man of quality or degree within
her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all
We lose it not, so long as we can smile.
crab. Thou canst tell why one's nose stands i'
Sit,--and some wine! A health to Lepidus!
This fellow's of exceeding honesty,
Titus, when wert thou wont to walk alone,
son and scared my choughs from the chaff, I had not
And yet you never swum the Hellespont.
Hear you, master steward, where's our master?
maintained that salamander of yours with fire any
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
Please you, sir,
By heart and in heart, boy.
I cannot choose: sometime he angers me
The Constable of France.
No, my good lords, it is not that offends,
By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly
And when your mistress hears thus much from you,
Not to kill him, having a warrant for it, but to be
As there comes light from heaven and words from breath,
Of every realm, that did debate this business,
Some trumpet summon hither to the walls
Sweet mistress--what your name is else, I know not,
Ay, and you'll look pale
Freely command, thou wouldst have plunged thyself
This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
You rascal!
Under the covering of a careful night,
Hortensio, and I trow this is his house.
New customs,
Better than he have worn Vulcan's badge.
Flourish. Exeunt
And tragical, my noble lord, it is,
If so, my eyes are oftener wash'd than hers.
know straight our purpose: choughs' language,
The lustful Edward's title buried--
The king is a good king: but it must be as it may,
Give not this rotten orange to your friend,
to my husband he is now here, and hath drawn him and
am apt to do myself wrong, I am not so reputed: it
Exit SIR ANDREW
ACT III
And told'st me of a mistress and a dinner,
A witch, by fear, not force, like Hannibal,
So did our looks.
That can recover him.
Things that are known alike, which are not wholesome
And be resolved he lives to govern us,
All you that see her, that she were a maid,
Which of us fears.
Your lord and master did well to make his
And thy ambition, Gloucester.
Not now.
I now repent I told the pursuivant
O, good madam, there can be none yet.
Having the fearful flying hare in sight,
Enter a Serving-man
I have a tree, which grows here in my close,
Will shortly fill the reasonable shore
Exit
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:
Our scene is alter'd from a serious thing,
And this brave fellow too, we are the grains:
gods. Make the meat be beloved more than the man
These thoughts of horror further than you shall
Most useful for thy country.
But time hath nothing blurr'd those lines of favour
And so will I.
Yes, my good lord,
The canon of the law is laid on him,
these letters: I know not which is which.
Nay, let me alone for swearing.
To look upon the holy sun, to have
Madam, my mother, I do cry you mercy,
I shall discharge to the life.
That will I, should I die the hour after.
Have you so soon forgot the entertainment
Was never mother had so dear a loss!
To have me filch it?
Or do but lift this arm, the best of you
Nay, Cadwal, we must lay his head to the east,
Than that a sister, by redeeming him,
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
For thou hast given me in this beauteous face
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy,
Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig and recover the
Exeunt LANCASTER and WESTMORELAND
O Lord, I would it had been two!
Why, now thou hast unwish'd five thousand men,
It is applied to a deathful wound.
And let them be recall'd from their exile:
To any sovereign state throughout the world.
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
Let Somerset be regent over the French,
ANTIPHOLUS
'Tis no matter: ne'er a fantastical knave of them
Ay, forsooth: but he is as tall a man of his hands
have banged the youth into dumbness. This was
I'll give no blemish to her honour, none.
I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t'other,
Not Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
A phoenix that shall make all France afeard.
Which with pain purchased doth inherit pain:
Not to be pardon'd, am content withal.
To throw away the dearest thing he owed,
I call thee not.
friendly counsel: I will run, fiend, my heels are
With all true duty. On toward Calais, ho!
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse
Liker in feature to his father Geffrey
God I have as little patience as another man, and
Longer than I prove loyal to your grace
Beside, so qualified as may beseem
'Tis so.
Not knowing them until we know their grave:
Must or for Britons slay us, or receive us
As daylight doth a lamp, her eyes in heaven
Your heaviest censure.
His master thus.
Well, while I live I'll fear no other thing
You must needs dine with me: go not you hence
The English force, so please you.
complete man.
Was there with him, if I have heard a truth.
For I repent me that the duke is slain.
To-day, my lord, and for three months before,
When I have walked like a private man,
Say 'Who's a traitor? Gloucester he is none.'
What, is there a maid with child by him?
And yet of moment to, for it concerns
And such an instrument I was to use.
This land of such dear souls, this dear dear land,
Gentlemen, for shame, forbear this outrage!
I'll see before I doubt, when I doubt, prove,
foot, you shall see, as I have said, great
Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge
And these grey locks, the pursuivants of death,
inquire further after me, I had talk of you last
I did upbraid her and fall out with her,
I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond.
You're welcome. What's your will? Give us leave, drawer.
And bring me word what he doth say to thee.
Or a keeper with my freedom,
The red wine first must rise
Gloucester, we will meet, to thy cost, be sure:
I would thou hadst told me of another father.
I do, my lord, and in her eye I find
thy heels, and beat thee before the king? Draw, you
If it were yours by none of all these ways,
She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
In deadly hate the one against the other:
Enter HAMLET
This story shall the good man teach his son,
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love,
They are near the city?
My sons would never so dishonour me:
SCENE IV. Wales: before the cave of Belarius.
'Lo, thus' quoth Dighton, 'lay those tender babes:'
your promise.
When I should bid good morrow to my bride,
This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate.
'Tis a strange truth.
As easy as a down-bed would afford it.
That were the authors.
Hath so betray'd thine act: being done unknown,
That is the voice,
Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
Nay, let me have't, I long.
Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her:
Grows dainty of his worth, and in his tent
Inclined to this intelligence, pronounce
And let me be a slave, to achieve that maid
Where is Launce?
JULIET appears above at a window
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
Away with Slender and with him at Eton
I will embrace thee in it by and by.
But here an angel in a golden bed
So that the art and practic part of life
Methought you said you neither lend nor borrow
Go with me: if you like upon report
Of thy adverse pernicious enemy:
So far exceed all instance, all discourse,
Come, I have found you out a stand most fit,
My answer back. Brutus hath rived my heart:
We have led since thy exile. Think with thyself
Thou baggage, let me in.
Dark night, that from the eye his function takes,
Sirrah, walk off.
the means I shall then have to prefer them, and the
The wren with little quill,--
His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
Unto the shore, to ask those on the banks
By wicked means to frame our sovereign's fall.
And that hereafter ages may behold
I humbly do entreat your highness' pardon,
Depending on their brands.
you a dozen of shirts to your back.
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
Let me hear a staff, a stanze, a verse, lege, domine.
I'll smoke your skin-coat, an I catch you right,
And so shall you, being beaten: do but start
Go fetch them hither to us presently.
Prosper our colours in this dangerous fight!
Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up, urchins
And so let me entreat you leave the house.
had a feigned letter of my master's
Nay, good my lord, be not afraid of shadows.
A man already made, as to remit
O, then unfold the passion of my love,
And he that otherwise accounts of me,
I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your
But know not how it went. My second joy
A gory emulation 'twixt us twain:
I will praise an eel with the same praise.
We'll execute your purpose, and put on
Which sways usurpingly these several titles,
A great while ago the world begun,
leg, it was formed under the star of a galliard.
And in the modesty of fearful duty
That when he speaks not like a citizen,
Fear not, 'tis empty of all things but grief,
It is hypocrisy against the devil:
sport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber.
I'll be revenged:
But say, my lord, it were not register'd,
Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is now crept into
Dogs howl'd, and hideous tempest shook down trees,
Take hold on me, for my particular grief
Alarums. Enter KING JOHN and HUBERT
Let your best love draw to that point, which seeks
And I the king shall love thee.
Of your philosophy you make no use,
That you ask me what you are, and do not know
But neither bended knees, pure hands held up,
What louring star now envies thy estate,
Look to it, lords! let not his smoothing words
With Charles, Alencon and that traitorous rout.
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
If any thing that's civil, speak, if savage,
Come, fellow, follow us for thy reward.
And will as tenderly be led by the nose
Mingle their spurs together.
Exit
And if it sort not well, you may conceal her,
The Goths have gather'd head, and with a power
Or else you like not of my company.
I leave him to your hand. What muffled fellow's that?
Have lost, or do not learn for want of time,
it.
That I beheld:
So thou destroy Rapine and Murder there.
Exit Boy
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
To ask of whence you are. Report it.
married of him than of another: for he is not like
Hold up before him?
pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they
Be this the whetstone of your sword: let grief
backs, what shall poor men do? For me, I am here a
Do we all holy rites,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Know, my name is lost,
the theatre, I am no true man.
of dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuffed
But to speak that in words which his eye hath
Myself have heard a voice to call him so.
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
affection, that I should win what you would enjoy?
And so should you.
There's none so foul and foolish thereunto,
And that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee,
o' the toe like a parish-top. What, wench!
I'll keep them all,
Monday night, which he forswore on Tuesday morning,
How goes it now? he looks gentler than he did.
We have again. Remember, sir, my liege,
Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee,
And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with
Has a book in his pocket with red letters in't.
Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him,
What a pestilent knave is this same!
'Tis some mischance, the cry is very direful.
An alarum: excursions. BEDFORD, brought in sick  in a chair. Enter TALBOT and BURGUNDY without:  within JOAN LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, on the walls
I loved him as in honour he required,
You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
Where yet she never was.
With like advantage on the other side,
One, sir, that for his love dares yet do more
And though you took his life, as being our foe,
grain enough!
How pomp is follow'd! mine will now be yours,
Lord Angelo is severe.
You would have them always play but one thing?
shoulders: but it is no English treason to cut
I'll venture so much of my hawk or hound,
Out, you mad-headed ape!
Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine,
Exit HERMIONE, guarded, with Ladies
Both warbling of one song, both in one key,
Send to her, by the man that slew her brothers,
Enter Clown, and PAROLLES, following
Then must my sea be moved with her sighs,
To whom do you speak this?
Enter MACDUFF
Call not your stocks for me: I serve the king,
We were not all unkind, nor all deserve
rather than hold three words' conference with this
So thrive I in my dangerous attempt
like a wood woman! Well, I kiss her, why, there
Whose minister you are, whiles here he lived
when you put off that with such contempt? But to the court!
No more shall be the neighbour to my counsel:
We'll light upon some settled low content.
To their subsequent volumes, there is seen
Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see
And Cytherea all in sedges hid,
The flower of Europe for his chivalry,
That lived amongst men.
No, my good lord,
Hath charged you should not speak together.
Were I alone to pass the difficulties
my foe to sweat:
Dispatch: this knave's tongue begins to double.
But now mischance hath trod my title down,
I may quarter, coz.
Exeunt OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, and their army
The crest of youth against your dignity.
To me she speaks, she moves me for her theme:
Sword, hold thy temper, heart, be wrathful still:
By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,
Hath nature that in time will venom breed,
To prove him, in defending of myself,
My rage is gone,
Her life is only safest in her birth.
Ah, where's my man? give me some aqua vitae:
Come, boy, I am past moe children, but thy sons and
Hides the gold
Throws a stone at him
Talk with respect and swear but now and then,
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
Saw you no more? mark'd you not how her sister
In me at once: but to the brightest beams
There's honour in the theft.
Are led so grossly by this meddling priest,
What you have said, and show yourselves true Romans.
I am so far from granting thy request
Like goodly buildings left without a roof
What worser place can I beg in your love,--
And how long lay you there?
All dues be render'd to their owners: now,
For ere thou canst report I will be there,
SCENE II. A court of Justice.
flattered the people, who ne'er loved them, and there
With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
liveth, is to be no counterfeit, but the true and
I shall report,
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
'Tis the way
Be not so rash, take ransom, let him live.
You have too much, good lady, but to know
To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.
this dagger my sceptre, and this cushion my crown.
We have consented to all terms of reason.
They did amongst the troops of armed men
This health to Lepidus!
That shall be rack'd, even to the uttermost,
First thrash the corn, then after burn the straw:
Better forbear till Proteus make return.
That labour, sir. All's now done, but the ceremony
Drawing his sword
SCENE I. Britain. The Roman camp.
They are opposed already.
Look, how he makes to Caesar, mark him.
For bounty, that makes gods, does still mar men.
you. I told him you were sick, he takes on him to
Do strike at my injustice.
Which better fits a lion than a man.
Enter the QUEEN, POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, and IMOGEN
head, nay, prithee, be covered. How old are you, friend?
Say 'pardon,' king, let pity teach thee how:
That I have longed long to re-deliver,
Thou art clerkly, thou art clerkly, Sir John. Was
Exit
How now, old lad?
Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath
I to the world am like a drop of water
Saddle my horses, call my train together:
and therefore too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier.
And he but naked, though lock'd up in steel
His tears proclaim'd his, parting with her: thence,
What must the king do now? must he submit?
By the woman's means?
That had in it a crannied hole or chink,
to the same diseases, healed by the same means,
When you come 'cross his humour, faith, he does:
I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas.
Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.
He was my friend, faithful and just to me:
flatterer: he that beguiled you in a plain
''Tis right:' quoth he, 'thus misery doth part
Run, master, run, for God's sake, take a house!
Unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young
Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom
Alack, for mercy!
And all the more it seeks to hide itself,
every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.
Though there the people had more absolute power,
But where is he?
there is but three skirts for yourself, in my
Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!
Lysander, whereto tends all this?
bridge most valiantly, with excellent discipline.
And lay this Angiers even to the ground,
With every gale and vary of their masters,
Who sitting in the stocks refuge their shame,
Can make good use of either: she being down,
Not a soul
The body is with the king, but the king is not with
Stands on the hourly thought.
Shall show the better. Do not consent
This news distracts me!
Taken as seen, for Pompey's name strikes more
Their wives have sense like them: they see and smell
Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit
Ay, but I know--
All but new things disdain, whose judgments are
Soft! who comes here? A friend of Antony's.
Whate'er I forge to feed his brain-sick fits,
see him a man.
smile with an austere regard of control,--
If you had pleased to have defended it
Away! I say, commend me to thy master.
Let him that makes but trifles of his eyes
Well, let her be admitted.
Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
My lord, I will be thankful.
I know not, but
When neither is attended, and I think
Nay more, while grace is saying, hood mine eyes
Give him allowance for the better man,
In an extravagant and wheeling stranger
Enter Poet, Painter, Jeweller, Merchant, and others, at several doors
Every man's conscience is a thousand swords,
I promise you, my lord, you moved me much.
--O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart
We leave you now with better company.
To see our widower's second marriage-day.
And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns.
Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,
To cast up, with a pair of anchoring hooks,
Have other some: why, 'tis a happy thing
man to kill him: 't has been proved. If I were a
His sons he there proclaim'd the kings of kings:
My lord, you once did love me.
Launce, away, away, aboard! thy master is shipped
Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love,
Stabs him
Give me the gown. Where is thy instrument?
way of thy excuse: my lady will hang thee for thy absence.
Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee,
Yes, and shall do till the pangs of death shake him:
To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain:
Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and enforces.
When I spake darkly what I purposed,
Excuse it not, for I am peremptory.
Remember. Madam, fare you well:
broke cross.
ANTIPHOLUS
The life o' the building!
advantage of the time, above him in birth, alike
Which so roused up with boisterous untuned drums,
It is the very error of the moon,
Can you not hate me, as I know you do,
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
'Tis meet so, daughter: but lest you do repent,
And those musicians that shall play to you
Is not the Lady Constance in this troop?
You must be father to your brother's daughter
'Tis hatch'd and shall be so: Tranio, at once
Well, Angelo, your evil quits you well:
Come on, my lords, the better foot before:
There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it:
Mistress?
Ah, that thy father had been so resolved!
Exit
As I do long and wish to be a subject.
Even now I curse the day--and yet, I think,
Enter DEMETRIUS and HELENA, running
the Egyptians in their fog.
The south-fog rot him!
Flatter my sorrows with report of it,
O Cromwell,
Now, by Saint Paul, this news is bad indeed.
Like a false traitor and injurious villain.
The moon into salt tears: the earth's a thief,
That were the servants to this chosen infant,
As we were sickly prey: their shadows seem
Peace, ho! Caesar speaks.
I have been troubled in my sleep this night,
That the Pannonians and Dalmatians for
Henry the Fourth by conquest got the crown.
And yet we should, for perpetuity,
Wrath makes him deaf: speak thou, Northumberland.
And Don Armado shall be your keeper.
Infortunate in nothing but in thee:
The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
Thou shinest in every tear that I do weep:
And yet we hear no tidings from the king,
He must be taught and train'd and bid go forth,
stand up here, and see them as they pass toward
If he be absent, bring his brother to me,
Hath in him closed, whereby he does receive
Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town:
Resumes his mantle
Enter DUKE OF YORK attended
Ajax employ'd plucks down Achilles' plumes.
Doth Silvia know that I am banished?
Yet neither conqueror nor conquered:
O, in the battle think on Buckingham,
The bloody proclamation to escape,
Now, by my sceptre and my soul to boot,
No, no, my sovereign, Gloucester is a man
I wish some ravenous wolf had eaten thee!
I fear I wrong the honourable men
Haply your eye shall light upon some toy
Whither bound?
From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept
I know thou dost.
And to what end is this? Nay, ladies, fear not,
They fell together all, as by consent,
Heard you this, Gonzalo?
[Aside to CLARENCE]  You shall have four, if you'll
I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The
Since I came to this isle: and in the morn
'Tis all the better,
yours, and therefore the gift the greater.
Ah, my good Lord of Winchester, I thank you,
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
How now! is he dead already? or is it fear
Hark, wretches! how I mean to martyr you.
Without controlment, justice, or revenge?
Let none think flattery, for they'll find 'em truth.
look to his bond.
beguile thee, if thou wert the lamb, the fox would
I am your accessary, and so, farewell.
For thee, oppressed king, am I cast down,
And when she is froward, peevish, sullen, sour,
Which serve not for his vantage, be shakes off,
Erect his statue and worship it,
This is no answer, thou unfeeling man,
when thou hast tired thyself in base comparisons,
She never yet was foolish that was fair,
Sit, gods, upon your thrones, and smile at Troy!
A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable,
And well become the agent, 't may, I grant,
So seems this gorgeous beauty to mine eyes.
Would serve your turns.
thee coward: but I would give a thousand pound I
God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
Ready they were to shoot me to the heart.
A greater power than we can contradict
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
When I was born, the wind was north.
A second night of such sweet shortness which
Suffolk concluded on the articles,
flower-de-luce?
My body shall make good upon this earth,
She would with rich and constant pen
Would safely deliver me from this place!
Which death or absence soon shall remedy.
To have it baned? What, are you answer'd yet?
'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
Both he loves.
You gave me none: you wrong me much to say so.
Is slander to your royal dignity.
For, heaven to earth, some of us never shall
My Lord of Somerset will keep me here,
Here is your hand and seal for what I did.
Sith priest and holy water are so near
suitors have strong breaths: they shall know we
Fulfil your pleasure. Live a thousand years,
How does my bounteous sister? Go with me
And not a thought but thinks on dignity.
ere your grandsires had nails on their toes, yoke you
Most royal sir, from thence, from him, whose daughter
If it please the gods to defend you by men, then men
And he shall be Vincentio of Pisa,
Cleanse the foul body of the infected world,
Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
The covering sky is nothing, Bohemia nothing,
[Waking]  Sleep, thou hast been a grandsire, and begot
Come on.
I would sing my song without a burden: thou bringest
Enter HUBERT and Executioners
Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our sense
Thou mightst as well say I love to walk by the
day during his life, he could not have 'scaped
Have I not tarried?
Fellows, stand fast, I see a passenger.
Make me a willow cabin at your gate,
but little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, as
But I con him no thanks for't, in the nature he
With whom each minute threatens life or death.
Sad stories chanced in the times of old.
That gave the affront with them.
word in your ear: sir, I say to you, it is thought
Now will I charge you in the band of truth,
What's here? A scroll, and written round about?
A dram of worth be drawn.
What, have you writ that letter to my sister?
Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!
And Henry born at Windsor lose all:
redeem you from your gyves, if not, you shall have
Be so much more the man. Nor time nor place
O, gentlemen, see, see! dead Henry's wounds
That, as I am a Christian faithful man,
And cut her hands and trimm'd her as thou saw'st.
For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
Who waits there?
That Tiber trembled underneath her banks,
You are like one that superstitiously
Far truer spoke than meant: I lose, indeed,
I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts:
This comes with seeking you:
Which is a wonder how his grace should glean it,
Danger and disobedience in thine eye:
Thanks, courteous wall: Jove shield thee well for this!
For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.
a reckoning. I am not yet of Percy's mind, the
Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head.
For, as he writes, there is no quailing now.
The Greeks upon advice did bury Ajax
But to himself so secret and so close,
You, minion, are too saucy.
night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall
So perhaps did yours.
thy conscience flies out.
Those that would die or ere resist are grown
comfort. She calls you, coz: I'll leave you.
Marry, for that she's in a wrong belief,
Will you cover then, sir?
My lord, your promise for the earldom,--
My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage
But will my Rosalind do so?
Sweet-heart, see, they bark at me.
Mine, and most of our fortunes, to-night, shall
I will praise any man that will praise me, though it
With the arm'd rest, courtiers and beauteous freedom,
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse,
Which is a great way growing on the south,
The chronicles of my doing, let me say
If Gloucester be displaced, he'll be protector.
Staying him
Sir, your queen must overboard: the sea works high,
crumbs. A stoup of wine, Maria!
May have the due note of him, and of my land,
These are my mates, that make their wills their law,
A beastly ambition, which the gods grant thee t'
The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome
Your unknown sovereignty!
I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard,
bestowed that time in the tongues that I have in
And all to make away my guiltless life.
Exit
For thou hast made it like an humble suppliant.
way!
Stay and be secret, and myself will go.
Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir.
If study's gain be thus and this be so,
Like stinging bees in hottest summer's day
Exit SUFFOLK
Here, catch this casket, it is worth the pains.
She'll gallop far enough to her destruction.
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
We'll know all our fortunes.
ANTIPHOLUS
And you to wrangling, for thy loving voyage
not according to the disciplines of the war: the
'Fair sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last,
For three performers are the file when all
youth of the count's was today with thy lady, she is
I say, I will make him eat some part of my leek, or
Sings
Choler!
To prove thou hast a true-divining heart,
Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing.
That I do groan withal. Thou art to die.
Marry, and shall. But how now, Sir John Hume!
Dear father, soul and substance of us all,--
Call you me daughter? now, I promise you
To ease the gnawing vulture of thy mind,
there's no purchase in money. O, thou art a
With all the admired beauties of Verona:
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
More rancorous spite, more furious raging broils,
My Oberon! what visions have I seen!
I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
Which you have not redeem'd, indeed, paid down
Diana, aid my purpose!
Or groan for love? or spend a minute's time
Wantest thou eyes at trial, madam?
The power of man, for none of woman born
Exit
The 'why' is plain as way to parish church:
Away,
And, look, what notes and garments he doth give thee,
Belike, for joy the emperor hath a son.
Marry, sir, she's the kitchen wench and all grease,
and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges
La main, de hand, les doigts, de fingres. Je pense
So, get thee gone, that I may know my grief,
And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature
Shall lose me. What! in a town of war,
ACT V
Well, that rascal hath good mettle in him, he will not run.
For this new-married man approaching here,
Enter two Lords
With us in Venice, if it be denied,
Upon the dancing banners of the French,
And do not seek to take your change upon you,
Under your great command. You are to know
Measure us back to Naples? Keep in Tunis,
Thy oath remember, thou hast sworn to do't:
For an hour.
For then she could stand alone, nay, by the rood,
So often shall the knot of us be call'd
And cannot passionate our tenfold grief
I wish I had a cause to seek him there,
Out of this fell devouring receptacle,
God pardon thee! yet let me wonder, Harry,
'Twas but a bolt of nothing, shot at nothing,
Not mine, in good sooth.
I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave,
How is it with Titus Lartius?
Pray you, tread softly, that the blind mole may not
Remorse from power: and, to speak truth of Caesar,
That thus we die, while remiss traitors sleep.
For so they phrase 'em--by their heralds challenged
Methinks my moiety, north from Burton here,
My heart is great, but it must break with silence,
To avoid the carping censures of the world.
The revenue whereof shall furnish us
Shall I teach you to know?
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
When he was brought again to the bar, to hear
Do smilingly revolt, and who resist
In my rights,
And give him from me this most needful scroll.
Enter another Messenger
The duke is very strangely gone from hence,
O noble sir,
That thou thyself was born in bastardy,
man's voice.
But makes one pardon strong.
My father hath a power, inquire of him
Where is Achilles?
Yet seek my father's love, still seek it, sir:
Marry, she hath received your letter, for the which
Then Clarence is at hand, I hear his drum.
And thereupon thou speak'st the fairest shoot.
When she did suckle Hector, look'd not lovelier
Why, thus it shall become
Which makes her seat of Belmont Colchos' strand,
And friendship shall combine, and brotherhood:
A woman well-reputed, Cato's daughter.
And bear the sow-skin budget,
To save the Romans, thereby to destroy
As would be cramm'd up in a sheet of paper,
Now thou art seal'd the son of chivalry?
bondman? If any, speak, for him have I offended.
And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?
For here we need it not.
How he comes o'er us with our wilder days,
And give their fasting horses provender,
That I have, lady: if it will please Caesar
We will before the walls of Rome tomorrow
All's done, my lord.
shalt have a licence to kill for a hundred lacking
Ay, sir, like who more bold.
of languages, and stolen the scraps.
What, was your vizard made without a tongue?
fool him black and blue: shall we not, Sir Andrew?
How the world goes, that to the pace of it
Why dost thou call them knaves? thou know'st them not.
crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before.
My soul hath her content so absolute
Or as thy father and his father did,
Methinks his lordship should be humbler,
Love thyself last: cherish those hearts that hate thee,
Take't, 'tis yours. What is't?
Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees
SCENE I. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
Exeunt
Most absolute lord,
I would swim after.
I'll pay your bounties, till then rest your debtor.
Enter OTHELLO
[Aside to SIMPLE]  Are you avised o' that? you
cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make
For and a shrouding sheet:
Thou talk'st of nothing.
as they say, and know the world.
Will you come to bed, my lord?
And the first motion, all the interim is
Thus, after greeting, speaks the King of France
The treasury of life, when life itself
The chief cause concerns his grace of Canterbury.
bark Expedition put forth to-night, and then were
And I, who at his hands received my life, him
Exit QUEEN ELIZABETH
That mothers shall but smile when they behold
Yet is the kindness but particular,
Long live Edward the Fourth!
If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
Enter BEATRICE, behind
To see a goodlier man.
Which, once discern'd, shows that her meaning is,
Draws, and is charmed from moving
May it please your honour, Lord Lucius,
To win our daughter.
On the sudden,
Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow,
Quite from their fixure! O, when degree is shaked,
Such as he hath observed in noble ladies
that you praised so to the queen? O, that I knew
The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy,
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss.
And all the men and women merely players:
Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means
Lead me, my lord? I do not need your help:
The taper burneth in your closet, sir.
And instances of infinite of love
Will crowd a feeble man almost to death:
And this ditty, after me,
Some lay in dead men's skulls, and, in those holes
Exeunt
Lord of my life, commander of my thoughts,
What in the contrary?
Ne'er may I look on day, nor sleep on night,
I am surprised with an uncouth fear,
Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo
It is extempore, from my mother-wit.
From that it is disposed: therefore it is meet
Though you, it seems, come from the fliers.
Shortcake upon All-hallowmas last, a fortnight
A brother's dead love, which she would keep fresh
For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.
To teeming foison, even so her plenteous womb
I have more cause.
This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance
Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile,
How intend you, practised?
Too nice, and yet too true!
Yes, Cassius, and, from henceforth,
Ha, ha!
Enter the Ghost of Prince Edward, son to King Henry VI
Are you a god? would you create me new?
Look, my lord, it comes!
Is it new and old too? how may that be?
serving-men in their new fustian, their white
Letters to Richmond, you shall answer it.
her wax must melt.
If he be dead, brave Talbot, then adieu!
Do wrong to none: be able for thine enemy
Exeunt
And, if we thrive, promise them such rewards
Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse
Even till a Lethe'd dulness!
Thine, Claudio, thine, I say.
To enforce these rights so forcibly withheld.
John hath seized Arthur, and it cannot be
And have an hour of hearing, and, by'r lady,
Who, I am sure, is kind and comfortable:
Have I liked several women, never any
Good master Parson, be so good as read me this
Become thy great birth nor deserve a crown.
Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death:
Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward,
Hides not his visage from our cottage but
Not used to toil, did almost sweat to bear
He did discharge a horrible oath, whose tenor
Scratching could not make it worse, an 'twere such
The blood, and dearest-valued blood, of France.
Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
But shift away: there's warrant in that theft
Whose health and royalty I pray for.
of nobleness which nature shows above her breeding,
High dukes, great princes, barons, lords and knights,
No, you shall pardon me.
very pretty boy. O' my troth, I looked upon him o'
Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids,
Only, in lieu thereof, dispatch me hence.
With hey, ho,  and c.
By my faith,
Mistress Ford, I cannot cog, I cannot prate,
thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:
How eagerly ye follow my disgraces,
Not palating the taste of her dishonour,
That commonly rebels. 'Tis a good hand,
Varro's Servant	I speak not to thee.
But to the sport abroad: are you bound thither?
Who of their broken debtors take a third,
That shake not, though they blow perpetually.
Thy son by this hath married. Wonder not,
Drum and colours. Enter MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS, LENNOX, and Soldiers
My sober house. By Jacob's staff, I swear,
This realm dismantled was
CARDINAL
Of all that virtue love for virtue loved:
Villain, thou know'st no law of God nor man:
And yesterday the bird of night did sit
And so the lion vanished.
Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time,
Come not within the measure of my wrath,
You are my father, for methinks in you
If it please you: yet Count Claudio may hear, for
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
She could have run and waddled all about,
But with advice and silent secrecy.
At your request a little from himself.
there I'll sup. Farewell.
Within thy help and holy physic lies:
To woo so fair a dame to be his wife,
By welkin and her star!
Here at the palace I will rest awhile.
Good night, my lord.
I thought my mother, and my brother York,
All of companionship.
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
That have my heart parted betwixt two friends
Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now:
I am to break with thee of some affairs
become the function well, nor lean enough to be
Exeunt severally
Till my attempt so much be glorified
Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he
For me to joy and weep their gain and loss:
pitiful goers-between be called to the world's end
What's done i' the Capitol, who's like to rise,
To counsel me to make my peace with God,
to thirteen, this spirit walks in.
Antipholus, thou camest from Corinth first?
Well, an the fire of grace be not quite out of thee,
Those provinces these arms of mine did conquer:
To CARDINAL WOLSEY
Descended into perjury, to love me.
Night and silence.--Who is here?
A coward, a most devout coward, religious in it.
More of him anon. There is written in your brow,
A lightning before death: O, how may I
What, ho, Barnardine!
Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'
[Aside]  How like a fawning publican he looks!
Dies
More than I dare make faults. You few that loved me,
In that vast tennis-court, have made the ball
from a spider, without drawing their massy irons and
Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery,
From Lisbon, Barbary and India?
What! have I twice said well? when was't before?
With mine own breath release all duty's rites:
As if increase of appetite had grown
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
To temper poisons for her, still pretending
And make them keep their caves: since I was man,
They have a king and officers of sorts,
The bird is dead
time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and
Room, ho! Tell Antony, Brutus is ta'en.
Not much employment for you: you understand me?
Being thus crammed in the basket, a couple of Ford's
shall I be revenged on him? for revenged I will be,
To be entangled with those mouth-made vows,
Who least will seem to do so, my past life
Would you praise Caesar, say 'Caesar:' go no further.
Good morrow, Richmond!
and our revolted wives share damnation together.
why, that's nothing, an he begin once, he'll rail in
He unlocks the golden casket
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Gelding the opposed continent as much
SCENE IV. Country near Birnam wood.
To go in person with me to my house.
Knock,
Vanquish my staider senses. What's the matter?
Madman and beggar too.
what hacks are on his helmet! look you yonder, do
Is named, your wars in France: this makes bold mouths:
The height, the crest, or crest unto the crest,
woman. Him I, as my ever-esteemed duty pricks me on,
Enter IAGO
No longer exercise
Think it a bastard, whom the oracle
Haply the seas and countries different
These cheeks are pale for watching for your good.
Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above,
highways out of all sanctified limit, as a desperate
Runs on his sword
How long have you been of this profession?
[Giving a paper]
But that I cannot do ten thousand more.
him carried away, and, which is more, within these
Command my eldest son, nay, all my sons,
Enter GREEN
And thence from Athens turn away our eyes,
But now the blood of twenty thousand men
Religion to the gods, peace, justice, truth,
Might I but through my prison once a day
If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, I would make thee
To cool this heat, a charm to calm these fits.
A gallant prize? ha, cousin, is it not?
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please,
I am sick of this false world, and will love nought
The king cried Ha! at this.
Before I would have granted to that act.
Or lose myself in dotage.
That flies her fortune when it follows her.
O, throw away the worser part of it,
Things have been strangely borne. The
The wager thou hast won, and I will add
To LEONTES
for true, that he's so full of gold?
Shall I vouchsafe your worship a word or two?
Of trembling winter, the fairest
Nay, if you melt, then will she run mad.
seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion
To draw their swords: but how the fear of us
the word is well culled, chose, sweet and apt, I do
Sooner than quittance of desert and merit
thy tabour?
Pretend some alteration in good will?
The virtue that possession would not show us
A murderous villain, and so still thou art.
What, you look merrily!
This warlike volley.
That was the whip of your bragg'd progeny,
Is't possible?
That Paris is returned home and hurt.
Because you know, my lord, my mother lives.
Now outlaw'd from my blood, he sought my life,
Employ thee then, sweet virgin, for our good.
And bind us further to you.
But I might master it: in faith, I lie,
No more my king, for he dishonours me,
What do you esteem it at?
leave that I may bear my evils alone: it were a bad
If ever danger do environ thee,
Like a full-acorn'd boar, a German one,
DON
My lord high constable, the English lie within
I'll do 't, my lord.
Have,' said she, 'given his mistress that confection
Courage enough: I do not fear the flaw,
Been all the worth of's car. Away to Britain
is deceived, or Sir John.
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
That, ere the next Ascension-day at noon,
For who is he, whose chin is but enrich'd
Melancholy.
I humbly thank your royal majesty.
With bag and baggage: many thousand on's
Yerk out their armed heels at their dead masters,
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
Exeunt
Before this out-dared dastard? Ere my tongue
Though he hath fallen by prompture of the blood,
SCENE III. Plain between the camps.
This lady's husband here, this, do you see--
if the bear be gone from the gentleman and how much
Some thousand verses of a faithful lover,
But, hark, what noise?
Though this island seem to be desert,--
During their use, and slay us after.
Trust me, a good knot: I have good cheer at home,
What thou art promised: yet do I fear thy nature,
The lineal state and glory of the land!
No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
Exit
I had rather be a kitten and cry mew
ACT III
Music i' the air.
Renowned suitors, and her sunny locks
And he shall say you are not well to-day:
found Benedick and Beatrice between the sheet?
'His garment!' Now the devil--
Each way, to better yours.
Traitor, thou liest.
Then go with me to make the matter good.
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Why, master mayor, why stand you in a doubt?
Then not in Britain must you bide.
Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart,
Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
In her forehead, armed and reverted, making war
Could make him the receiver of, which he took,
Or else thou art suborn'd against his honour
Rid all the sea of pirates, then, to send
To use his eyes for garden water-pots,
Thanks for that:
believe,' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me on
Poor I am stale, a garment out of fashion,
In brief, sir, study what you most affect.
very day receives letters of strange tenor,
Enter ALEXAS, from OCTAVIUS CAESAR
it on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
King Stephen was a worthy peer,
He has no equal.
Thou mightst have sooner got another service:
A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
O, take the sense, sweet, of my innocence!
And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.
And well am like to do, for, I perceive,
You'll never meet a more sufficient man.
I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
If you require a little space for prayer,
Nay, it makes nothing, sir.
music and thy English broken, therefore, queen of
at me, and he that hits me, let him be clapped on
A bold brave gentleman. That should be
SCENE III. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?
did, I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
To bring forth this discovery. Seek these suitors:
Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
That justice seizes: what know the laws
That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death
Enter LAUNCELOT
will you vouchsafe me a word?
Tell him, so please him come unto this place,
Not rascal-like, to fall down with a pinch,
In a poor isle and all of us ourselves
To England send him, or confine him where
That by thy comfortable beams I may
This fortification, gentlemen, shall we see't?
Good sentences and well pronounced.
Sell every man his life as dear as mine,
The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home.
Say there be,
Are lank and lean with thy extortions.
Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?
O, temperance, lady!
Re-enter PHILOSTRATE
Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds
The continent and summary of my fortune.
Assay the power you have.
town, by moonlight, there will we rehearse, for if
Aside
That wants the means to lead it.
Hume must make merry with the duchess' gold,
Enter CORIOLANUS in mean apparel, disguised and muffled
Which, at more leisure, I will so excuse
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the
Shoughs, water-rugs and demi-wolves, are clept
That gives them credit.
Within this mile and half.
Under the allowance of your great aspect,
good Christians ought to have.
The Duke of Somerset, whom he terms traitor.
I see a good amendment of life in thee, from praying
He might have kept that glory to this day,
I honour him
Sir, for your hurts, myself will be your surgeon:
Promise me friendship, but perform none: if thou
Ay, noble Titus, and resolved withal
The grandchild to her blood. But, out, affection!
The borrow of a week. When at Bohemia
Say his long trouble now is passing
And perish ye, with your audacious prate!
A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,
Can you remember any of the principal evils that he
Well, is this captain in the duke of Florence's camp?
So it should seem by that I have to say.
Alack, I have no eyes.
Which fourteen hundred years ago were nail'd
In which addition, hail, most worthy thane!
Most sweet lady,--
Then would I hide my bones, not rest them here.
Is she the goddess that hath sever'd us,
Mortal, to cut it off, to cure it, easy.
As curst, as harsh and horrible to hear,
Stand!
Kill the poys and the luggage! 'tis expressly
To make you garlands of, and my sweet friend,
Why came not the slave back to me when I called him.
thief thinks it little enough: so every true man's
Pray, do my service to his majesty:
See, how with signs and tokens she can scrowl.
I will confess what I know without constraint: if
My dearest love,
When the tongue's office should be prodigal
But since my master and mistress have bought you,
And bid thee battle, Edward, if thou darest.
Cannot be well bestow'd.
portend these divisions! fa, sol, la, mi.
Come, cousin, canst thou quake, and change thy colour,
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.'
retire, and the Duke of Exeter is master of the
O me unhappy!
Yet Edmund was beloved:
If 'twill not serve,'tis not so base as you,
My lord archbishop,
I do not much dislike the matter, but
them bravely, quite traverse, athwart the heart of
Now question me no more, we are espied,
That e'er did lift up eye.
Be better suited:
This is unlikely:
Would he deny his letter? I never got him.
We still have judgment here, that we but teach
I am in this earthly world, where to do harm
Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company,
It is the pasture lards the rother's sides,
What, my gracious lord?
Dead.
make not this cheat bring out another and the
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
In a most curious mantle, wrought by the hand
All things is ready. How near is our master?
Dost please thyself in't?
Be patient yet.
But Brutus says he was ambitious,
Mended again. The matter, proceed.
Of gracious order, late come from the See
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
Caesar's.
Thisbe, is the better, he for a man, God warrant us,
hanging: make the rope of his destiny our cable,
Of divers witnesses, which the duke desired
To say you have seen a better.
Tell me where is fancy bred,
offered her mine own, who is a dog as big as ten of
Sing all a green willow must be my garland.
If fortune brag of two she loved and hated,
Which our divines lose by 'em.
Exeunt
Or council has respect with him but he.
From me do back receive the flour of all,
And of the Cannibals that each other eat,
No way but gentleness, gently, gently: the fiend is
Forthwith that Edward be pronounced a traitor,
Nobly doom'd!
The hour draws on. To the oak, to the oak!
Than bees that made 'em.
Has the old man e'er a son, sir, do you hear. an't
array. Tom's a-cold.
Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
Retires and kneels
In a most dear particular. He call'd me father:
Here's too much 'out upon thee!' I pray thee,
He was but as the cuckoo is in June,
For she did print your royal father off,
Before his legs be firm to bear his body.
To bear your griefs yourself and leave me out,
Heaven grant us its peace, but not the King of
Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
And well we may come there by dinner-time.
It may be his enemy is a gentleman of great sort,
velvet on's face: whether there be a scar under't
Unlike the ruler of a commonweal.
Deserves the extremest death.
RICHARD
makes it soon mortal.
the spirits o' the dead
trick you served me when I took my leave of Madam
No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay:
Most savage and unnatural!
Didst thou not tell me, Griffith, as thou led'st me,
Proceed, proceed	I'll give her.
beware instinct, the lion will not touch the true
Show me, my women, like a queen: go fetch
Tapers they are, with your sweet breaths puff'd out.
Menas, I'll not on shore.
him: he is indeed a horse, and all other jades you
Come, where is this young gallant that is so
In their best fortunes strong, but want will perjure
Counter-cheque Quarrelsome: and so to the Lie
I come from the worthy Achilles,--
Had I been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more,
If sanctimony be the gods' delight,
That thou for truth givest out are landed here?
And when thou find'st a man that's like thyself.
And pray God's blessing into thy attempt:
Alack, and what shall good old York there see
And call it accident.
Do what they would, are sorry--you are honourable,--
Let Marcus, Lucius, or thyself, old Titus,
Ay, my good lord.
Fast to the chair: be heedful: hence, and watch.
For ere Demetrius look'd on Hermia's eyne,
my dreams again: I will therefore tarry in
What doth she say, my Lord of Buckingham?
The handkerchief!
What, art thou mad?
Prithee, Kate, let's stand aside and see the end of
There is an air comes from her: what fine chisel
There's fresher air, my lord,
On that celestial harmony I go to.
Yourself shall feast with us before you go
will do no hurt, it will wear the surplice of
As far as doth the Capitol exceed
broke open my lodge.
To me.
Knocks
Cornelia the midwife and myself,
But hear you, hear you!
Paint till a horse may mire upon your face,
To meet the least occasion that may give me
Madman, thou errest: I say, there is no darkness
Thou say'st his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings:
walnut for his wife's leman.' Satisfy me once more,
Thou dost deserve enough, and yet enough
The jaws of darkness do devour it up:
I pray thee, give it me.
That Anne my wife is sick and like to die:
And thou shalt be canonized, cardinal,
A birth, and death?
SCENE I. A plain in Syria.
Much!
Found there rich jewels, recover'd her, and placed her
The country gives me proof and precedent
Go to, go to,
Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss:
'Glamis hath murder'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor
Which did incorporate and make us one,
there's not a nose among twenty but can smell him
Then, have I reason to be fond of grief?
And I beseech you instantly to visit
O, if thine eye be not a flatterer,
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship, so
[Aside]  If that be call'd deceit, I will be honest,
To make an act of tragic violence:
Nay, Eleanor, then must I chide outright:
Will you leave me there?
You'll not endure him! God shall mend my soul!
Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.
Because he hath a half-face, like my father.
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
To forfeit all your goods, lands, tenements,
Because I know you well and love you well,
So I grow stronger, you more honour gain.
Almost a mile: but he does usually,
But when I came unto my beds,
My army but a weak and sickly guard,
O Tamora, be call'd a gentle queen,
Thus in a chapel lying! Come off, come off:
Clamours of hell, be measures to our pomp?
Bernardo?
many I have beheld. I could not but believe she
Nay, rather let me have it, as you are a false thief.
The winds and persecutions of the sky.
Hear me, good brother.
The question of Cordelia and her father
soldier's, which is ambitious, nor the lawyer's,
What rubbish and what offal, when it serves
way is dangerous, since I cannot yet find in my
Consul! what consul?
But now to task the tasker: good Boyet,
False to his children or his wife's allies
Sweet draught: 'sweet' quoth 'a! sweet sink,
Not what is dangerous present, but the loss
We pout upon the morning, are unapt
rushling, I warrant you, in silk and gold, and in
The sea enraged is not half so deaf,
Upon my banishment: I moved her to't,
Hold me your loyal servant.
And now by law, as well as reverend age,
The king's grown bankrupt, like a broken man.
The fringed curtains of thine eye advance
To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live,
That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke?
extremities he endured, and in the reproof of this
Up, cousin, up, your heart is up, I know,
Playing on pipes of corn and versing love
Come back, fool, this is the Duke of Suffolk, and
Let me entreat you.
Shall strike his father's crown into the hazard.
That they will guard you, whether you will or no,
The princely Charles of France, thy countryman.
Strong reasons make strong actions: let us go:
We'll fall to it with our teeth.
[Sings]
His radiant root. Away! and, to be blest,
When thousands weep more than did laugh at it.
Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight:
is the way: and there dwells one Mistress Quickly,
To swear, swears only not to be forsworn,
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
Exeunt
given to virtue, I would swear by thy face, my oath
So farewell, noble Lucius.
The worst returns to laughter. Welcome, then,
That we are here.
And then I'll come and be thy waggoner,
Which beasts would cough at: thy palate then did deign
Who, as you say, took pains to get this son,
Yet hold I off. Women are angels, wooing:
This before all the world do I prefer,
Alack, sir, I am sand-blind, I know you not.
SONG.
Thy back, I prithee.
A banquet prepared. Enter MACBETH, LADY MACBETH, ROSS, LENNOX, Lords, and Attendants
But the plain single vow that is vow'd true.
That I might rail at him, to ease my mind!
Nor how it may concern my modesty,
Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?
To make thee capable.
Is he gone?
We grieve at chances here. Away!
Sweet father, cease your tears, for, at your grief,
Marry, heaven forbid!
I rather will suspect the sun with cold
within me.
That for the fault's love is the offender friended.
There is a cliff, whose high and bending head
His will is most malignant, and it stretches
Wotting no more than I, are ignorant.
I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
What, is he arrested? Tell me at whose suit.
So distribution should undo excess,
Are you not ashamed? let the clothes alone.
Of my endurance, thou art a man, and I
May we not see him?
O Agamemnon, let it not be so!
all women shall pardon me. Because I will not do
it grows, yet youth, the more it is wasted the
It was his queen, his queen!
How chance the king comes with so small a train?
For visiting your highness: my best train
Out on thee, villain! wherefore dost thou mad me?
Why masters, have your instruments been in Naples,
March afar off, and shot within
Hath trifled former knowings.
Well, thou hast called her to a reckoning many a
daughters, of what complexion soever, and so buffets
This and my food are equals, there's no odds:
When I do see the very book indeed
You may guess quickly what.
And 'twere the cheaper way:
Katharina, that cap of yours becomes you not:
No, I will not, for it boots thee not.
The inward service of the mind and soul
enticements, oaths, tokens, and all these engines of
Thou canst not say I did it: never shake
I would you heard it groan.
of love. Leander, he would have lived many a fair
Now, by God's mother, priest, I'll shave your crown for this,
Yet 'tis not madness. Where's Antonio, then?
Have done the time more benefit and graced
Gentlemen,--
And like rich hangings in a homely house,
Then gather strength and march unto him straight:
And so do I. Victorious Prince of York,
Is done unto thy hand: the last she spake
Even from this instant, banish him our city,
Drum and colours. Enter KING HENRY, GLOUCESTER, and Soldiers
Before we met or that a stroke was given,
Thou rag of honour! thou detested--
If she be mad,--as I believe no other,--
Make thy demand.
[Aside]  Ay, by my faith, the field is honourable,
there: I will go.
Why, then he will say we stabbed him sleeping.
Then I repent not.
And with your queen. I am his cupbearer:
I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
Our pleasure?
And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.
Trip we after the night's shade:
That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.
Remains in danger of her former tooth.
Reflect on Rome as Titan's rays on earth,
And they it were that ravished our sister:
Amen, amen! Go on, good Eglamour,
one another by the look, like cockatrices.
I lie, for they pray continually to their saint, the
When vice makes mercy, mercy's so extended,
Of thy unnatural uncle, English John:
Why only, Suffolk, mourn I not for thee,
And so espoused to death, with blood he seal'd
If the winds rage, doth not the sea wax mad,
'as sure as day,'
What's that?
I prithee, beat thy drum, and get thee gone.
A stone is soft as wax,--tribunes more hard than stones,
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
You have it from his own deliverance.
Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale, by
I will resolve your grace immediately.
By those that feel their sharpness:
Appear'd to me last night, for ne'er was dream
The actor may plead pardon. I'll none now:
That ever turn'd their--backs--to mortal views!
I prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse,
Must it be violent, and as he does conceive
Go you and enter Harfleur, there remain,
To-morrow, my lord: time goes on crutches till love
Enter CYMBELINE and Lords
The parents live, whose children thou hast butcher'd,
Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear:
O, when she had writ it and was reading it over, she
No worthier than the dust!
Re-enter the FRENCH KING and his QUEEN, BURGUNDY, and other Lords
I will not fail you.
What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe!
Enter WORCESTER and VERNON
Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity
his cowardship, ask Fabian.
Enter the army of the Volsces
Now, pretty one, how long have you been at this trade?
Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
Plumpy Bacchus with pink eyne!
Holy, fair and wise is she,
'If,' quoth he, 'I for this had been committed,
Beyond thought's compass, that former fabulous story,
Enter a Townsman of Saint Alban's, crying 'A miracle!'
The King of Naples, being an enemy
Egregious murderer, thief, any thing
Fetch't, let me see't.
Possession of a subject.
Did you but know the city's usuries
It proves not so: their battles are at hand,
Grant I may never prove so fond,
Beat me!
Unworthy brother, and unworthy sons!
And by still practise learn to know thy meaning.
Well, to the rest:
And taste Lord Timon's bounty? he outgoes
From sincere motions, by intelligence,
'Item: She can spin.'
I'll beat him, by my life, if I can meet him with
Boskos vauvado: I understand thee, and can speak
Go tell their general we attend him here,
She that you gaze on so as she sits at supper?
'Tis pity he is not honest: yond's that same knave
Royal sir,
do it with unwashed hands too.
see the light of our fairies. Remember, son Slender,
But first I'll turn yon fellow in his grave,
In place of greater state. I'll meet you in the valleys.
Yet am I Suffolk and the cardinal's broker.
as since he hath been allowed the name of, but I
And on it have bestow'd more contrite tears
Deserves your pity?
By bloody hands, in sleeping on your beds!
Spit, and throw stone s, cast mire upon me, set
I pray thee, let me feel thy cloak upon me.
Hath crawl'd into the favour of the king,
I know, Iago,
Ladies, you are not merry: gentlemen,
[Aside to ANTONIO]  I say, to-night: no more.
And bade me, if I had a friend that loved her,
Not half an hour before.
Who of my people hold him in delay?
'Tis true, Master Shallow.
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
And may it be that you have quite forgot
And the conjunction of our inward souls
Unto the brother of your loving bride,
craftily qualified too, and, behold, what innovation
on one side.
Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love,
And of your choice, these reverend fathers, men
Where is John Talbot? Pause, and take thy breath,
If we shadows have offended,
Exeunt
They bear the mandate, they must sweep my way,
disrelish and abhor the Moor, very nature will
private, it is a very vile life. Now, in respect it
Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
Weigh but the crime with this.
Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
SCENE I. Westminster. A street.
To quit the fine for one half of his goods,
Helen, I love thee, by my life, I do:
To LUCIUS
Full often, like a shag-hair'd crafty kern,
Menenius, you are known well enough too.
To doubtful fortunes, sequestering from me all
water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come to
Anon, anon.
No, nor you shall not.
I saw Othello's visage in his mind,
'Tis well, Lavinia, that thou hast no hands,
Exit
Should seek a plaster by contemn'd revolt,
Without much fall of blood, whose guiltless drops
Enter Second Merchant, ANGELO, and an Officer
Where most it promises, and oft it hits
I have done.
You lie, ye rogue, 'tis going to the king's tavern.
For his right noble mind, illustrious virtue
You wrong me, Signior Gremio: give me leave.
Be collected:
Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain,
Which if they have as I will leave 'em them,
that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place
show your sheep-biting face, and be hanged an hour!
taken such pains to bring you together, let all
I'll speak no more but 'Vengeance rot you all!'
My shames redoubled! for the time will come,
You understand me: over and beside
My cousin Vernon, welcome, by my soul.
Must have inventions to delight the taste,
Best to preserve it: if I lose mine honour,
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
Enter ROMEO and BALTHASAR, with a torch, mattock,  and c
Some of those branches by the Destinies cut,
You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Or strange, or self-affected!
That noises it against us.
Singing
Did pretty Jessica, like a little shrew,
Peep'd harms that menaced him: he privily
Hath she forsook so many noble matches,
To give it her. I did so: and take heed on't,
If this be courtesy, sir, accept of it.
Methinks King Richard and myself should meet
red-faced, by the means whereof a' faces it out, but
In leaden contemplation have found out
Driving back shadows over louring hills:
This ruffian hath botch'd up, that thou thereby
Marry, I will, let them play it. Is not a
Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong,
Should of another therefore be abused!
Say, didst thou speak with him? know'st thou his mind?
She might ha' been a grandam ere she died:
Distracted clouds give way, so stand thou forth,
And not protract with admiration what
Most true, forsooth, and many time and oft
ACT III
Exit
That have by marriage made thy daughter mine,
If broken then, it is no fault of mine:
I must go in. Ay me, how weak a thing
Exit
constable, and my name is Elbow: I do lean upon
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
Then 'tis but reason that I be released
We did believe no less.
To see the enclosed lights, now canopied
And who should find them but the empress' villain?
A quarrel, ho, already! what's the matter?
A good digestion to you all: and once more
About the giving back the great seal to us,
For corn at their own rates, whereof, they say,
Ay, but the citizens favor Lucius,
In my behalf, my reputation stain'd
He kills the nurse
And long live thou and these thy forward sons!
With who?
Such proclamation hath been made, my liege.
To monstrous quality,--why, you shall find
Live, and love thy misery.
'Twere now to be most happy, for, I fear,
How unremoveable and fix'd he is
Not Isabel?
He faints
A narrow lane, an old man, and two boys.
I twice five hundred and their friends to piece 'em.
Not all the water in the rough rude sea
were a thought browner, and your gown's a most rare
Of mighty opposites.
How many actions most ridiculous
The wrinkles in my brows, now filled with blood,
Wilt come? I'll follow, Stephano.
Reads
Wash'd me from shore to shore, and left me breath
First, rehearse your song by rote
Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,
Enter JULIET
I do defy thy conjurations,
Deny us for our good, so find we profit
And abstinence engenders maladies.
Prove you that any man with me conversed
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard.
Run, run, O, run!
And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be.
Was fairer than his grandam and as chaste
porridge after meat! I could live and die i' the
Prithee, Apemantus, read me the superscription of
And live a subject? Nay, forsooth, my friends,
I would she were in heaven, so she could
kinsman, he's a most notable coward, an infinite and
It was some fiend, therefore, thou happy father,
And two such shores to two such streams made one,
That I this day of him received the chain,
Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
Of wounds two dozen odd, battles thrice six
In top of all design, my mate in empire,
To the possession of thy royal hand:
Then in dumb silence will I bury mine,
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands
With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots.
The which, how far off from the mind of Bolingbroke
Which to this hour bewail the injury,
Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place,
more said? he is good and fair. Is Sir John
But fare thee well, there is a ducat for thee:
Hath come so near creation? Move these eyes?
Enter one with an Officer
So indeed I did.
To temper clay. Yea, it is come to this?
Out of my files, his projects to accomplish,
But thieves do lose it: steal no less for this
Sans sans, I pray you.
Hew them to pieces, hack their bones asunder
What are you?
By bare imagination of a feast?
And a petition granted them, a strange one--
rogues are marvellous poor.
conversant in general services, and more remarkable
Rouse him: make after him, poison his delight,
Exeunt some Attendants
Any thing.
Exit SIMPLE
That, lying by the violet in the sun,
'Poor deer,' quoth he, 'thou makest a testament
Because she will admit no kind of suit,
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence,
honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar.
To hide thee from prevention.
Here to this place, i' the open air, before
Now the hungry lion roars,
Why tender juvenal? why tender juvenal?
I should not know you, Brutus. Dear my lord,
Than they in fearing.
Your light grows dark by losing of your eyes.
Put on my brows this wreath of victory,
No, not to live. O nation miserable,
To be regarded in her sun-bright eye.
Which still we thank as love. Herein I teach you
That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
Where is Malvolio? he is sad and civil,
clean linen, and let not him that plays the lion
Were not so rich a jewel. Thou wast a soldier
endure cold as another man's sword will: and
I'll none of it: hence! make your best of it.
She would applaud Andronicus' conceit:
drudge, or diviner, laid claim to me, call'd me
My sword is drawn.
As you commanded me.
Exit
Good cheer, Antonio! What, man, courage yet!
To NORTHUMBERLAND
To play till doomsday. Bring our crown and all.
Confine yourself but in a patient list.
I am sorry, madam, I have hurt your kinsman:
wear their plackets where they should bear their
Enter a Sergeant of a band with two Sentinels
The one in fear to lose what they enjoy,
And know how well I have deserved the ring,
Exit, guarded
Enter ARTHUR
Of mortal breathing: seize it, if thou darest.
Our hands are full of business: let's away,
Let this be so,
So is running away, when fear proposes the safety,
copulatives, to swear and to forswear: according as
I have almost slipp'd the hour.
Thus far into the bowels of the land
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
Alarum afar off
And both the princes had been breathing here,
For, now they are oppress'd with travel, they
Do come with words as medicinal as true,
And lend no ear unto my purposes.
Tied all the kingdom: simony was fair-play,
Thy noble brother Titus and his sons,
Sir, the duke is marvellous little beholding to your
I saw him hold acquaintance with the waves
And yet a thousand times it answers 'no.'
Go, bear him in thine arms.
Cries of itself 'No more:' now breathless wrong
Let be, let be.
So, let the ports be guarded: keep your duties,
Enter DOCTOR BUTTS
Young York he is but boot, because both they
Did I impale him with the regal crown?
Enter DECIUS BRUTUS
Why muse you, sir? 'tis dinner-time.
To offices of tender courtesy.
So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.
Thrust but these men away, and I'll forgive you,
see thee so put down?
Seven hundred pounds and possibilities is goot gifts.
That I am to pronounce Augustus Caesar--
That suffer surfeit, cloyment and revolt,
Believe me, lords, my tender years can tell
To see me pay his debt, and then I care not!
Unsheathe your sword, good father, cry 'Saint George!'
Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
me: but I requited him for his lie, and, I
My wife can speak no English, I no Welsh.
Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed!
Thou hast been rightly honest,--so hast thou,--
On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
I'll thither: what thing is it that I never
We should have else desired your good advice,
I will not hear her speak, away with her!
fain to hang you.
And I'll go seek the duke: his banquet is prepared.
[Advancing]  Do you hear, monsieur? a word with you.
SCENE IV. The platform.
O, 'twill be admirable!
Which, I protest, hath very much beguiled
And, like the haggard, cheque at every feather
Or bring him in obedience to your yoke.
For I can no where find him like a man.
I'll take the better care, but if you will not,
Against your peace: Love doth approach disguised,
Sweet Imogen?
A solemn combination shall be made
But now in arms you strengthen it with yours:
Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
Create her child of spleen, that it may live,
He is a dreamer, let us leave him: pass.
The poor deer's blood, that my heart means no ill.
But as successively from blood to blood,
Might come to me again. Who's there?
And Longaville was for my service born.
wings to follow it! Come, and be true.
Which now bear evidence against my soul,
friend, his backward voice is to utter foul speeches
Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.
And send him word by me which way you go.
of measure sad?
That stops my way in Padua. Grumio,
therefore I'll hide me.
With eggs, sir?
great folk should have countenance in this world to
to thy gait in a semi-circled farthingale. I see
Dear master, I can go no further. O, I die for food!
Chased us away, till, raising of more aid,
That which appears in proper nakedness?
In thine own person answer thy abuse.
SCENE III. Bosworth Field.
Do with so good a woman?
marry her: my villany they have upon record, which
Where is she gone? Haply, despair hath seized her,
Grandam, his nurse.
Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
Lords, I am hot with haste in seeking you:
Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love
been into Thames, ere I will leave her thus. Her
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
He must think us some band of strangers i' the
And take her hearing prisoner with the force
scab follow.
On, good Camillo.
A Talbot! a Talbot! cried out amain
Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter:
Bless'd his three sons with his victorious arm,
And with a look so piteous in purport
Well, 'tis done:
If she be black, and thereto have a wit,
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
loquitur, a soul feminine saluteth us.
Is never free of. But, beseech your grace,
Nay, let's seek him:
action of slander too.
Go bear it to the Centaur, where we host,
Which Harry Percy here at Holmedon took,
which else an easy battery might lay flat, for
They do abuse the king that flatter him:
To tell me how he takes it. Fare you well:
[Within]  The porter for this time, sir, and my name
Exeunt Host and BARDOLPH
couples are coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of
Enter FLAVIUS, with many bills in his hand
He should or he should not, for he made me mad
To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you,
His promises were, as he then was, mighty,
All disconsolate,
he transgressed: she would have made Hercules have
Gloucestershire.
And prize me at her worth. In my true heart
but to see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.
I have a daughter, sir, called Katharina.
If it be so to do good service, never
And some will mourn in ashes, some coal-black,
Go to, say no more.
Lest your retirement do amaze your friends.
teaches him to hick and to hack, which they'll do
And when I told thee he was of my counsel
Selves of themselves, to your recomforture.
If your pure maidens fall into the hand
Lysander riddles very prettily:
Believe me, on mine honour,
And hold your hands in benediction o'er me:
They draw on both sides
To thy fair way!
And makes it fearful and degenerate,
Good bawcock, bate thy rage, use lenity, sweet chuck!
SCENE I. A hall In ANGELO's house.
And damn'd be him that first cries, 'Hold, enough!'
In any of their courts.
To death, or to a vow of single life.
Teaching all that read to know
The weariest and most loathed worldly life
Plies Desdemona to repair his fortunes
Unmasking
Which to recure, we heartily solicit
O the good gods!
Come Caesar to the Capitol to-morrow?
Let dying Mortimer here rest himself.
Applying another asp to her arm
Which was declining on the milky head
Is like the sun's, but not, like his, recoverable.
Let what is meet be said it must be meet,
I'll follow and inquire him out:
In sign whereof I pluck a white rose too.
Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause,
Why suffer'st thou thy sons, unburied yet,
Or hath mine uncle Beaufort and myself,
charge nature,
Past the mid season.
These letters come from your father.
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
But with them change of honours.
Good lieutenant! good corporal! offer nothing here.
To be thy nurses! Wolves and bears, they say
Did they, quoth you? Who sees the heavenly Rosaline,
Good friend, go to him, for, by this light of heaven,
more, a hundred of them.
So all.
Exeunt, bearing the dead bodies
[Aside]  Then we are like to have biting statutes,
sin, and sin is damnation. Thou art in a parlous
piece of my desires.
To TOUCHSTONE
And will you?
Who sued to me for him? who, in my rage,
fear of Got in a riot: the council, look you, shall
Bad is the world, and all will come to nought,
Or he shall pay for this.
I do not set my life in a pin's fee,
Lucius preconsul: and to you the tribunes,
Draw thy sword,
The daughter of a king, my drops of tears
There is a vice that most I do abhor,
With every joint a wound, and that to-morrow!
Some certain treason.
practises he hath persecuted time with hope, and
Alas, you three, on me, threefold distress'd,
Enter AEMILIUS
Wash your hands, put on your nightgown, look not so
None in the world, nor do I know the man.
is now the general: may say so in this respect, for
O your sweet queen!
Enter LEONTES, with ANTIGONUS, Lords and others
Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fetch'd
These mouths, who but of late, earth, sea, and air,
I, that am rudely stamp'd, and want love's majesty
Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:
That monster envy, oft the wrack
My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post,
SCENE III. A room in LEONTES' palace.
[Giving his petition]  Against my master, Thomas
To reach at victory above my head,
Against an oracle.
In every wound of Caesar that should move
Touches us not with pity.
But to prorogue his grief.
That, if my speech offend a noble heart,
See you well guerdon'd for these good deserts.
I think would better please 'em: by my life,
By his best arrow with the golden head,
an he had stayed by him, I would not have been so
And thrift is blessing, if men steal it not.
they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
[Aside]  I'll no more drumming, a plague of all
The greatness he has got. I hourly learn
Take up the body.
SCENE I. Verona. A public place.
listening. Now I begin: Imprimis, we came down a
So many horrid ghosts. O now, who will behold
O Lewis, stand fast! the devil tempts thee here
Why, fool?
Why how now? do you speak in the sick tune?
I ever contradicted your desire,
Ay, that a' did.
And cabin in a cave, and bring you up
Your lady is forthcoming yet at London.
SCENE II. The same. Court of Pandarus' house.
There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be
God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
speak in your own behalf, and thus far I confirm
I find the people strangely fantasied,
May stand in number, though in reckoning none,
But howsoe'er, no simple man that sees
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
Giving to you no further personal power
I'll bring the body presently.
I know of none,
affection: it is past the infinite of thought.
My heavy burden ne'er delivered.
Dead, sure, and this his grave. What's on this tomb
Let's not confound the time with conference harsh:
His curses, then from bitterness of soul
Would he were a Trojan!
Had of your father claim'd this son for his?
With that which he hath drunk to-night already,
For the same handkerchief?
loads o' gravel i' the back, lethargies, cold
You would have thought the very windows spake,
That men are merriest when they are from home.
Then, in despite of brooded watchful day,
Appear i' the market-place nor on him put
Ay, madam.
Who doth desire to see you.
Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
Take you your instrument, play you the whiles,
yet, that you answer to Pyramus: you speak all your
No, not for Venice.
that, when your lordship this other day sent to me,
O, they eat lords, so they come by great bellies.
Should I repent me: but once put out thy light,
More than my body's parting with my soul!
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
Good even, gentle friend. Cover thy head, cover thy
Exit
Keep me in patience, and with ripen'd time
And he supposes me travell'd to Poland,
And since your coming hither have done enough
I know his eye doth homage otherwhere,
Nor would I have him till I do deserve him,
Which the proud soul ne'er pays but to the proud.
Perchance the cardinal cannot make your peace,
The king's a bawcock, and a heart of gold,
Conferr'd by testament to the sequent issue,
Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain,
Of a pair of bases.
That death's unnatural that kills for loving.
Here he is, here he is. How is't with you, sir?
Exeunt
Flourish
Against the laws and statutes of this town,
I will subscribe and say I wrong'd the duke.
you got the picture of old Adam new-apparelled?
I am settled, and bend up
lute-case, bore it twelve leagues, and sold it for
How like the empress and her sons you are!
And what is Edward but ruthless sea?
And he would love me dearly as his child.
Lord Bassianus lies embrewed here,
She comes to do you good.
Than hew to't with thy sword.
[Aside to DIOMEDES]  O, this is well, he rubs the
Timon, I fear me thou wilt give away thyself in
I do know
Who's there? Thersites! Good Thersites, come in and rail.
In good time.
blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us
Hath made her break out into terms of rage!
But stirr'd by Cleopatra.
Lean, rent and beggar'd by the strumpet wind!
Achievement is command, ungain'd, beseech:
With any branch or image of thy state,
Came to your court, how I was in your grace,
Let 's away,
The noblest hateful love, that e'er I heard of.
Thy arm may do thee justice: here is mine.
office of love, but in all the accoutrement,
To overbear it, and we are all well pleased,
Antonio, my father, is deceased,
Fall and no more: and, to atone your fears
Thou art a fellow of a good respect,
This is the rascal, this is he I spoke of.
of you, like a foul-mouthed man as he is, and said
[To TRANIO]  Signior Lucentio, this is the
Look'd pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,
taken with Jaquenetta, and Jaquenetta is a true
O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
Strikes life into my speech and shows much more
Come down upon us with a mighty power,
affirm it.
[Advancing]     What is he whose grief
Exit BELARIUS
That is another's lawful promised love.
To my keen curses, for without my wrong
It shall be done, I will arraign them straight.
The devil it is that's thy master. Why dost thou
Those that with haste will make a mighty fire
As my true service shall deserve your love.
tameness, civility and patience, to this his
I never had to do with wicked spirits:
And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen:
'Twas time, I trow, to wake and leave our beds,
Content, i' faith: I'll seal to such a bond
Beneath abhorring. What would you have, you curs,
Away with him! and let her sport herself
tush, man, mortal men, mortal men.
That I kiss aught but he.
Enter, on the walls, the Mayor of York, and his Brethren
Let it be so, thy truth, then, be thy dower:
It useth an enforced ceremony.
To VIOLA
The story of that baleful burning night
Give me the iron, I say, and bind him here.
He did inform the truth: but for our gentlemen,
To eat with us to-night, the charge and thanking
And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church
Now, what says the world
Guess at her years, I prithee.
'Tis not an hour since I left him there.
Hard as the palm of ploughman: this thou tell'st me,
Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
Where's that?
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
Weigh you the worth and honour of a king
God give your graces both
Upon the Thracian tyrant in his tent,
A dear happiness to women: they would else have
Would I could free't!
Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast.
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
what she has to do, that she may not be raw in her
I'll draw the curtain:
Thy mother's name is ominous to children.
O, come, Ventidius,
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
And pray thee take this mercy to provide
Some of my shame, if you will know of me
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
it!
I would it were hell-pains for thy sake, and my poor
And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect
Ay, on mine honour.
Never presented!--O, a root,--dear thanks!--
Who shortly also died: for whose dear love,
But must be, will his free hours languish for
The sudden hand of death close up mine eye!
So. What trade are you of, sir?
Did famine follow, whom thou fought'st against,
To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds:
His brother's death at Bristol, the Lord Scroop.
And yet I will not, sith so prettily
Enter LADY MACBETH, with a taper
Is ruminated, plotted and set down,
Upon a time,--unhappy was the clock
Madam, if't please the queen to send the babe,
Am, for his love and service, so to him.
Farewell.
You would quickly learn to know him by his voice.
Why, any thing:
Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse
I'll bring you to him.
And what he is that now is leap'd into it.
I play the torturer, by small and small
Who had been hither sent on the debating
How say you, madam? are you now persuaded
SCENE III. Venice. A public place.
wore when he took leave of my lady and mistress.
knows me not: I will try confusions with him.
noble lords, you have restrained yourself within the
But do not break your oaths, for of that sin
Leave me awhile.
Sweep your way for you. Pray you, look not sad,
Duke Humphrey.
The other his pale cheeks, methinks, presenteth:
Enter LAUNCE, with his his Dog
Who are surprised withal, but my rejoicing
The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw.
Or less than a just pound, be it but so much
Enter PROTEUS
Whose thankless natures--O abhorred spirits!--
let him have knowledge who I am.
Enter PHILARIO, IACHIMO, a Frenchman, a Dutchman, and a Spaniard
I will both hear and grant you your requests.
What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?
are wise and full of gibes and vlouting-stocks, and
O that ever I was born!
Carried to Colmekill,
The fearful French, whom you late vanquished,
Your brother and his lover have embraced:
proceeding, it shall become him well, wherein if he
way for you, if you do take a thief, is to let him
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you,
I lose your company: therefore forbear awhile.
The pale-faced moon looks bloody on the earth
My lord, I have.
her music o' mornings, they say it will penetrate.
To Edmund Langley, Edward the Third's fifth son.
my brother, whose loss of his most precious queen
My lord, I do beseech you, pardon me,
When steel grows soft as the parasite's silk,
'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant: when I
Have patience, sir, O, let it not be so!
Fie, cousin Percy! how you cross my father!
Full of protest, of oath and big compare,
All hail, my sovereign liege!
she'll fit it.
So likely an ambassador of love:
And feast upon her eyes? What is't I dream on?
Pull off my boots: harder, harder: so.
Why, here is the note of the fashion to testify
I read in's looks
By forfeiting a traitor and a coward.
O Pandarus! I tell thee, Pandarus,--
I left behind an ancient substitute:
None about Caesar trust but Proculeius.
I beseech you, be not so phlegmatic. Hear the truth
O heavens bless my girl! But, hark, what music?
Through proof of harness to my heart, and there
O bloody Richard! miserable England!
Thy knee bussing the stones--for in such business
My master, and my lord!
is not a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance?
'Tis most nobly spoken.
Most shallow man! thou worms-meat, in respect of a
To show the line and the predicament
countries in her.
Labouring for destiny make cruel way
Cherish rebellion and are rebels all.
That Antony speak in his funeral:
What's his name?
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, and SIR ANDREW
Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself
For whom my heart drops blood, and my false spirits
must give folks leave to prate: what, the good-jer!
I prithee now, lead the way without any more
A sure destruction.
And all the conduits of my blood froze up,
The occasion shall instruct you: if entreaties
That can do hurt.
In honest plainness thou hast heard me say
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
you.
A comfort of retirement lives in this.
too little for your thief, your true man thinks it
Blue coats to tawny coats. Priest, beware your beard,
me see't! I'll in, I'll in. Follow your friend's
Enter the Messenger as before
And to your heirs for ever, common pleasures,
counsel. I'll in.
Delay. Here are the angels that you sent for to
Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard:'
am the dog: no, the dog is himself, and I am the
The wild waves whist,
Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus:
As much as I can do, I will effect:
Each one with ireful passion, with drawn swords,
Language unmannerly, yea, such which breaks
Ah sir! ah sir! Well, death's the end of all.
that thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him
I thank you, good my lord, and thank you all.
To knaves and all approachers: 'tis most just
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
Madam!
Besides, it should appear, that if he had
In such a rustling time? Who leads his power?
Hearing the surges threat: we must all part
To spend that shortness basely were too long,
Thou gentle nymph, cherish thy forlorn swain!
Thou thought'st to help me, and such thanks I give
But once he slander'd me with bastardy:
Enter two Gentlemen
And sent you hither so unlike yourself?
Gripe not at earthly joys as erst they did,
Ch'ill pick your teeth, zir: come, no matter vor
I come to lose my arm, or win my sleeve.
Have waked their sleepers, oped, and let 'em forth
And by an eminent body that enforced
My lords, a solemn hunting is in hand,
Some wine, within there, and our viands! Fortune knows
Most gracious sir,
Trip away, make no stay,
Then, afterwards, to order well the state,
Let me pass quietly:
But thou wilt brave me with these saucy terms?
Will have it thus, that nothing but our lives
Cometh Andronicus, bound with laurel boughs,
I cannot tell, but I had as lief take her dowry with
For I am loath to break our country's laws.
Is almost come.
Offering him a root
No father his son dearer: truth to tell thee,
Exit
by law: I'll not budge an inch, boy: let him come,
And yet we have but trivial argument,
Exeunt QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
Seeking the bubble reputation
Allow'd with absolute power and thy good name
It eats the sword it fights with. I will seek
well-a-day, we could scarce help ourselves.
As make the angels weep, who, with our spleens,
I am a subject fit to jest withal,
The white hand of a lady fever thee,
of any thing he sees there, let thine eye be thy
Good company, with them shall Proteus go:
I must have done no less with wit and safety.
All wanton as a child, skipping and vain,
Forsooth, five years, and as much as to--
will give me occasion.
Than when I met thee last where now we meet:
Not to be helped,--
To speak my mind of him: and indeed this day,
Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
paramour for a sweet voice.
Tell me thine first.
though? C ourage! As horns are odious, they are
Dost thou hear, Hal? never call a true piece of
I will stand betwixt you and danger.
of his salt and most hidden loose affection? why,
To one that would have him help to waste
Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
Are often welcomest when they are gone.
This world to me is like a lasting storm,
But now the arbitrator of despairs,
valiant, I honour him: but, as he was ambitious, I
Air, would I might triumph so!
As yet I do not: but, as I can learn,
Found it too precious-princely for a grave.
Now, sirrah, you do wish yourself in Egypt?
And he's as like to do't as any man I can imagine.
If not: we'll make you sit and rifle you.
Exit
Now, they believe it, and withal whet me
Can tell so much: shall Banquo's issue ever
Else are they very wretched.
Must be a faith that reason without miracle
And then to Leonato's we will go.
If thou art she, tell me where is that son
What life is in that, to be the death of this marriage?
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
To instruct her fully in those sciences,
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five
Ah, cousin York! would thy best friends did know
Are you moved, my lord?
That wash'd his father's fortunes forth of France,
By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode
Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls
Which Salique, as I said, 'twixt Elbe and Sala,
There are the players.
The Christian prince, King Henry, were he here.
Love make his heart of flint that you shall love,
He can at pleasure stint their melody:
Kind Rome, that hast thus lovingly reserved
Get thee gone:
the fashion of his hat, it ever changes with the
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks,
Call her forth, brother, here's the friar ready.
such dishes, they are not China dishes, but very
It had been as a gap in our great feast,
Enter Gentleman
And men are flesh and blood, and apprehensive,
A nut, a cherry-stone,
himself could not have prevented, if he had been
Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish.
The town might fall in fright: he, swift of foot,
Why force you this?
Shall here inhabit, and this land be call'd
Since doubling things go ill often hurts more
Most power to do most harm, least knowing ill,
all.
Nay, good my lord,--
Here comes the prince and Claudio hastily.
Most manifest, and not denied by himself.
Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?
The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
Thou that givest whores indulgences to sin:
Save in the office and affairs of love:
And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed
Thus might he pass indeed: yet he revives.
Hath for your love a great a pang of heart
I should report that which I say I saw,
In love
[Aside]  How from the finny subject of the sea
To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
ACT II
Upon  a knife, 'Love me, and leave me not.'
villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if they had
When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness,
Bold in the quarrel's right, roused to the encounter,
What's the matter?
were good pancakes and swore by his honour the
Brief, I pray you, for you see it is a busy time with me.
The French king's daughter with yourself to speak--
His beard was as white as snow,
Philip, my liege, so is my name begun,
Pray God my news be worth a welcome, lord.
No.
That Thaisa am I, supposed dead
Exit
Good night.
I here do give thee that with all my heart
Good morrow, carriers. What's o'clock?
I give him you, the noblest that survives,
Good my lord, will you see the players well
And therefore is she born to make black fair.
Indian. Legged like a man and his fins like
Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,
And for an honest attribute cry out
He that has but effected his good will
that is my true humour.
To his confine: and of the truth herein
To let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us,
Yet could I bear that too, well, very well:
Why, bishop, is Norfolk dead?
I will not fail your ladyship. Good morrow, gentle lady.
hundred and fifty, Sebastian, so many, Corambus, so
If you do fight in safeguard of your wives,
A man he is of honest and trust:
I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
The horsemen sit like fixed candlesticks,
That opportunity
And yet the painter flatter'd her a little,
Exit, with his soldiers
In honourable fashion.
By all external warrants, show it now,
Could all my travels warrant me they live.
And make her full of hateful fantasies.
What treason there is mingled with your love.
Ay, two hours together.
And Suffolk's cloudy brow his stormy hate,
out of prawls, and prabbles' and quarrels, and
Enter, from one side, LUCIUS, IACHIMO, and  the Roman Army: from the other side, the  British Army, POSTHUMUS LEONATUS following,  like a poor soldier. They march over and go  out. Then enter again, in skirmish, IACHIMO  and POSTHUMUS LEONATUS he vanquisheth and disarmeth IACHIMO, and then leaves him
Your breach of promise to the Porpentine.
And hold me pace in deep experiments.
Merely, my lord.
All the power of his wits have given way to his
Happy be you!
How now! what's the matter?
grace was said.
four, and, with a word, out-faced you from your
And shortly comes to harvest.
Very vilely in the morning, when he is sober, and
Why, that is nothing: for I tell you, father,
This is Illyria, lady.
Either thou art most ignorant by age,
But what says she to me? be brief, my good
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
Recking as little what betideth me
He'll grant the tribute, send the arrearages,
Where is the post that came from Montague?
I knew he was not in his perfect wits.
honest a 'omans as I will desires among five
A paltry, insolent fellow!
This blot that they object against your house
In truth, sir, and she is pretty, and honest, and
At length her grace rose, and with modest paces
I am a Roman, and my services are,
your ear, I would have no words of it,--my master
rebellion of a codpiece to take away the life of a
Let it be hid. Gratiano, keep the house,
This is he.
My heart is ever at your service, my lord.
Which was embounded in this beauteous clay,
Oui, dat de tongues of de mans is be full of
pridge, I think in my very conscience he is as
And, as we may, cherish Duke Humphrey's deeds,
The world may read in me: my body's mark'd
You say not right, old man.
Thou hast some suit to Caesar, hast thou not?
As in these cases, where the aim reports,
With all the fierce endeavor of your wit
O, do not swear, my lord of Buckingham.
by which means I saw whose purse was best in
This Trojan scorns us, or the men of Troy
Re-purchased with the blood of enemies.
Whip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries
Dread sovereign, how much are we bound to heaven
O Paulina,
Being nimble-footed, he hath outrun us,
By me?
Alas, he is too young! yet he looks successfully.
We are men, my liege.
From action and adventure?
Almost no grave allow'd me: like the lily,
knowest my old ward, here I lay and thus I bore my
A savour that may strike the dullest nostril
Madam, we did: he desires to make atonement
By your leave, I cry you mercy: give your worship
And Roman Lucrece for her chastity:
seemed sorrow wept to take leave of them, for their
They be alone.
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
Richer than that which four successive kings
And that his friends by deputation could not
Alas, how then?
Wilt break my heart?
for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than
Defy the matter. How cheerest thou, Jessica?
desire you that we may be friends, and let us knog
First, madam, I entreat true peace of you,
But riddle-like lives sweetly where she dies!
Why, very well, I hope here be truths. He, sir,
An her hair were not somewhat darker than Helen's--
I wasted time, and now doth time waste me,
Must by the roots be hewn up yet ere night.
That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men
I promised here to meet.
How goes the night, boy?
Exeunt
She hath abated me of half my train,
A thousand crowns, or else lay down your head.
the Count Palatine, he is every man in no man, if a
Scots, Douglas, that runs o' horseback up a hill
Fair lords, take leave and stand not to reply.
Is guilty of a several bastardy,
Was not Gaunt just, and is not Harry true?
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite,
Sleeps
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM
That we adjourn this court till further day:
From that great face of war, whose several ranges
Who prays continually for Richmond's good:
My Lord of Cambridge, and my kind Lord of Masham,
nor Italian, and you will come into the court and
For such as we are made of, such we be.
Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the
eyes looked upon, was the best deserving a fair lady.
Here comes Bassanio, your most noble kinsman,
Gives signal, of a goodly day to-morrow.
Re-enter CASSANDRA, with PRIAM
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain,
That none so small advantage shall step forth
For who love I so much? And now who knows
Sir, I cannot.
The city ports by this hath enter'd and
For mine own ends, indeed, to gain the popedom,
Eat, I pray you: will you have some more sauce to
The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul!
For I have often heard my mother say
Where thou shalt find me, sad and solitary.
Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
Does whet his anger to him.
many books together: he is furnished with my
For the crown'd Truth to dwell in: I will
Which I will win from France, or else be slain,
As howling after music.
To take upon you what is yours: you may
'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,
Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well,
Any thing, my lord,
out of my prains what is the name of the other
As well we may, if not through your neglect,
Evades them, with a bombast circumstance
That this will prove a war, and you shall hear
I know it well.
Make it their walk.
country's friend,
So can I:
Not far, one Muli lives, my countryman,
Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies
thousand, and five hundred too.
Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower! Bring
Which time shall bring to ripeness: she shall be--
I have dogs, my lord,
little intoxicates in his prains, did, in his ales and
My lord: he doth entreat your grace,
Tressel and Berkeley, go along with me.
And public reasons shall be rendered
actors by the scroll. Masters, spread yourselves.
In a great pool a swan's nest: prithee, think
Away, slight man!
Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say I:
Falstaff do in the days of villany? Thou seest I
Or thy affection cannot hold the bent,
He's too big to go in there. What shall I do?
Country call'd his! and you his mistress, only
a wooden dagger, and they are both hanged, and so
Not if the small come first.
The heart that conn'd them.
My people are with sickness much enfeebled,
Change you colour?
it.
Peace there! hear the noble Antony.
I'll do well yet. Thou old and true Menenius,
Should bring thy father to his drooping chair.
As in offence.
Why, thou sayest well. I do now remember a saying,
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
Where, for a monument upon thy bones,
To have the due and forfeit of my bond:
Enter Banditti
That severs day from night.
that wise men have makes a great show. Here comes
Southwark? I thought ye would never have given out
Come hither, boy: if ever thou shalt love,
For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
Fly not, stand stiff: ambition's debt is paid.
Must give us pause: there's the respect
You say he dined at home, the goldsmith here
ACT III
Deserved much less advancement.
All thin and naked, to the numb cold night?
If that the former dare but what it can,
taste again but by the displanting of Cassio. So
What, while you were there?
I pray for no man but myself:
Apollo be my judge!
Post back with speed, and tell him what hath chanced:
Where feed'st thou o' days, Apemantus?
Men well inclined to hear what thou command'st:
An absolute trust.
Enter ANTONIO and PANTHINO
His borrow'd purse. Well, Jessica, go in,
Enter GLOUCESTER, and EDGAR dressed like a peasant
Find shapes of grief, more than himself, to wail,
What noise is this? what traitors have we here?
As much as would maintain, to the king's honour,
He will deserve more.
Enter a Herald
Which who shall cross?--along to go:
That, were I crown'd the most imperial monarch,
Your care is gain of care, by new care won:
him.
I beseech you all, be better known to this
fain think it were not.
You shall not now be stol'n, you have locks upon you,
the skirts of it, and beat me to death with a bottom
Tell me thy mind, for I have Pisa left
De chin.
I'll show you those in troubles reign,
I am invited, sir, to certain merchants,
be a clipper.
To serve me last, that I may longest keep
A most harsh one, and not to be understood without
It was proclaimed a year's imprisonment, to be taken
She's punish'd for her truth, and undergoes,
Now am I seated as my soul delights,
Most sweet voices!
O, let me kiss that hand!
detects him: 'tis a blushing shamefast spirit that
have named uncertain, the time itself unsorted, and
O, had it been a stranger, not my child,
Exit
[Aside]  For this,
At all times to your will conformable,
He's fallen in love with your foulness and she'll
But, sirs, be sudden in the execution,
gravelled for lack of matter, you might take
Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!
Ah, Marcus, Marcus! brother, well I wot
Is death to any he that utters them.
You have deserved nobly of your country, and you
in their very gesture, they looked as they had heard
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
Peter, didst ever see the like?
And tears will quickly melt thy life away.
Or else a rude despiser of good manners,
Nay, but, fellow, fellow,--
You would not do me violence.
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
I'll fill your grave up: stir, nay, come away,
Stay, fellow, I can read.
I say, Amen, Gonzalo!
I nursed her daughter, that you talk'd withal,
hold up his head, as it were, and strut in his gait?
Do calm the fury of this mad-bred flaw.
Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
game of tick-tack. I'll to her.
A slave, that still an end turns me to shame!
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
We'll none of him, but let him, like an engine
What should it be that he respects in her
Save ceremony, save general ceremony?
And time hath worn us into slovenry:
And his affections dark as Erebus:
pricking it for pity. Come, you shall go with us.
Do you not love my sister?
All, all, and, moreover, God saw him when he was
Nay, but understand me.
Advocate's the court-word for a pheasant: say you
Of all say'd yet, mayst thou prove prosperous!
That almost freezes up the heat of life:
How that the cardinal did entreat his holiness
As doth import you.
Come, some music!
I will never take you for my love again, but I will
open't. So, let's see: it was told me I should be
From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
Of his own doors being shut against his entrance.
Exeunt all but HAMLET
Her private actions to your secrecy,
SCENE I. Britain. A hall in Cymbeline's palace.
Till the rough seas, that spare not any man,
Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth,
Lest, growing ruinous, the building fall
And he to yours, and all of you to God's!
Who had not now been drooping here, if seconds
Let's talk of graves, of worms, and epitaphs,
To death or to dishonour, and my end
Who has a book of all that monarchs do,
In thy uprightness and integrity,
Care not for issue,
time, have you heard her say?
Of monstrous friends, nor has he with him to
To flatter Henry and forsake thy brother!
Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world
Was never widow had so dear a loss!
Rapier and dagger.
Deposed he shall be, in despite of all.
Beg often our own harms, which the wise powers
If my offence be of such mortal kind
Thou mean'st to have him grant thee.
Might there not be a charity in sin
If this be so, as yet the glass seems true,
O, here he is: lay hand upon him. Sir,
Most kind messenger,
Thou'rt an honest man.
Of health and living now begins to mend,
And that we find the slothful watch but weak,
impaired, but all disordered. Who is next?
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
Chide me, dear stone, that I may say indeed
Been sworn my soldier, bidding me depend
O, he has given example for our flight,
Away, away! Once more, sweet lords farewell.
That they combine not there.
After the hideous storm that follow'd, was
Whose state so many had the managing,
Alarum. Hector and Ajax fight
A poor earl's daughter is unequal odds,
Go to, i' faith, an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck
disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob
Besides these, other bars he lays before me,
The wife I chose? there can be no evasion
Here on my knee I vow to God above,
But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor:
That's my brave boy!
Exeunt from the walls
in good time.
Caesar, I shall.
As not to know the language I have lived in:
The fit and apt construction of thy name,
But three days longer, on the pain of death.
With words that in an honest suit might move.
The nature of our seats and make the rabble
Here is a path to't: 'tis some savage hold:
For the like loss I have her sovereign aid
Those whose great power must try him, even this,
Ay, there, look grim as hell!
BISHOP
Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
My health and happy being at your court.
To die upon the bed my father died,
The contents of this is the return of the duke: you
So call it: but it does fulfil my vow,
SCENE I. Before OLIVIA's house.
As willingly as one would kill a fly,
Except my mistress.
O, but I love his lady too too much,
Plantagenet is thine,' who though I speak it before
For, as I hear, the king is fled to London,
SCENE I. Before LEONATO'S house.
Be not dismayed.
Throws the meat,  and c. about the stage
I'll win this Lady Margaret. For whom?
Sits safe and still without him.
Away, then, with good courage! yet, I know,
When she had fitted you with her craft, to work
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
the arbitrement of swords, can try it out with all
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
She came adorned hither like sweet May,
As waters to the sucking of a gulf.
To SILVIUS
And I, to sound the depth of this knavery.
Say he is sick.
Knowing I loved my books, he furnish'd me
Your majesty entendre bettre que moi.
Giving it to PERDITA
My villain!
That now
Without the form of justice, yet our power
Which to prevent he made a law,
Come on, you thick lipp'd slave, I'll bear you hence,
And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale.
But under heavy judgment bears that life
fiend hath led through fire and through flame, and
Have practised dangerously against your state,
being, as I am, littered under Mercury, was likewise
Grows elder now and cares it be not done.
An appetite that I am sick withal,
This day, all things begun come to ill end,
Wherefore, gentle maiden,
Enter KING, HELENA, and Attendants. LAFEU and PAROLLES retire
Heaven will direct it.
All houses in the suburbs of Vienna must be plucked down.
If brothers.
You straight are on your knees for pardon, pardon,
Fills him with faults, makes him run through all the sins:
What says King Bolingbroke? will his majesty
To none of these, except it be the last,
Is, that his noble grace would have some pity
As thou'rt a man,
COUNTESS
Than doth, within a dull, stale, tired bed,
him, if there be any law in Illyria: though I
Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead,
Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket.
Rise, Marcus, rise.
That for a toy, a thing of no regard,
That speak him full of grace.
Gall, worse than gall, the daintiest that they taste!
To make it truster of your own report
Exeunt the followers of SATURNINUS
Could you not have told him
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
Some offer me commodities to buy:
The gutter'd rocks and congregated sands--
That I did amplify my judgment in
her
What sights, my lord?
In resolution to keep Helen still,
A great addition earned in thy death.
Who wither'd in her spring of year.
Peace be amongst them, if they turn to us,
Are masters to their females, and their lords:
Lo, you, my lord,
Calchas' tent:
I prithee, put them off.
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry, fill me a
To weep 'twixt clock and clock? if sleep
With the least cause these his new honours, which
Here.
thou art our admiral, thou bearest the lantern in
Bringing rebellion broached on his sword,
Enter EXETER, BEDFORD, and WESTMORELAND
Your passion draws ears hither.
How innocent she died, and if your love
Caius Marcius Coriolanus!
Come, come.
O, sir, you are old.
One do I personate of Lord Timon's frame,
To ransom home revolted Mortimer.
Well, well, I see the issue of these arms:
Speak it again, and, even with the word,
Exeunt
Who cannot err, he did it. Now this follows,--
That so stood out against the holy church,
Destroy'd themselves, and lost the realm of France!
For so I know he is, they know he is,
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
Alarum. Enter SUFFOLK with MARGARET in his hand
To every purpose! O thou touch of hearts!
know my business is but to the court.
I must go victual Orleans forthwith.
These are their tutors: bid them use them well.
A dangerous law against gentility!
In company I often glanced it,
Full of wise saws and modern instances,
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
Is't far you ride?
To the Elephant.
Although, I know, you 'll swear, terribly swear
The blood is hot that must be cool'd for this:
If you do sorrow at my grief in love,
Yes, without all doubt.
But thou the king. Woe doth the heavier sit,
'Faith, I must ravish her, or she'll disfurnish us
That could not live asunder day or night.
So, I am satisfied. Give me a bowl of wine:
I'll stand to-day for thee and me and Troy.
O, pardon me that I descend so low,
During whose reign the Percies of the north,
I have told him, Lepidus was grown too cruel,
From when this stream through muddy passages
Thy yellow stockings!
Make blind itself with foolish tenderness.
Are not words duly hallow'd, nor my wishes
Grey of Northumberland, this same is yours:
Be humble to us, call my sovereign yours,
In that nook-shotten isle of Albion.
Which waits upon worn times hath something seized
blush and weep and thou must look pale and wonder.
There's some great matter she'ld employ me in.
Are you there, butcher? O, I cannot speak!
What of his heart perceive you in his face
By thee to us, and he shall be interr'd
arms and heads, chopped off in battle, shall join
With them, upon her knees, her humble self,
Like men born to renown by life or death.
I'll lop a member off and give it you
I thank you: God be with you!
the knight is not here, now he shall see his own foolery.
Twice fifteen thousand hearts of England's breed,--
Draw the huge bottoms through the furrow'd sea,
Well mock'd.
For then I should not love thee, no, nor thou
Well, do you so, let not me take him, then,
The honourable board of council out,
To make bad good, and good provoke to harm.
Sound a flourish, with drums
Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear?
One touch of nature makes the whole world kin,
What man dost thou dig it for?
Inhabits our frail blood.
for him, then spit at him, that I drave my suitor
Why, would that have mended my hair?
Afflict me with thy mocks, pity me not,
Some haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord:
For love of Edward's offspring in my womb:
In thy eye that shall appear
Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace,
respects, makes a beast a man, in some other, a man
There's no time for a man to recover his hair that
Whose deaths are yet unrevenged: I prithee,
A man, if I live, and this, by, in, and without, upon
And we are stay'd for at Bassanio's feast.
A royal lady, spake one the least word that might
Woe me! for what?
Nerissa teaches me what to believe:
He smiled me in the face, raught me his hand,
Join with the traitor, and they jointly swear
I thank you for my venison, Master Shallow.
You felt than make't my boast.
Thy word is current with him for my death,
Tarry, Petruchio, I must go with thee,
Exeunt
What, will you have them weep our horses' blood?
'Twill be deliver'd back on good condition.
Thou that art like enough, through vassal fear,
Digest this letter of the cardinal's?
together is, abandon the society of this female, or,
Smile, gentle heaven! or strike, ungentle death!
Deliver with more openness your answers
And yet you halt not.
My father!--methinks I see my father.
Well praised! How if she be black and witty?
Who are you? Tell me, for more certainty,
By him for whom these shames ye underwent?
Because you talk of wooing, I will sing,
From what you rightly are.
something. But say, sir, is it dinner-time?
Re-enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
Admirable: how this grace
Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason
I am full sorry
Please you, sir,
Her eye discourses, I will answer it.
O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
Dauphin, command the citizens make bonfires
Have suffer'd wrong, go keep us company,
We cannot get from him.
Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing
I feel too much thy blessing: make it less,
Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise,
Hang in what place you please. Here, my good lord.
'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us,
A lean cheek, which you have not, a blue eye and
And find it out by proclamation:
SCENE IV. The same. A street.
But smacks of something greater than herself,
Well, thereby hangs a tale: good faith, it is such
For I must ever doubt, though ne'er so sure--
My boon is, that this gentleman may render
Amen.
Unless, perchance, you come to me again,
I only have made a mouth of his eye,
A nobler man, a braver warrior,
In suit the place of's bed and win this ring
And is this all?
Ay sir: I, a lost mutton, gave your letter to her,
And fetch shrill echoes from the hollow earth.
My grained ash an hundred times hath broke
Cornets. Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, all the Gentry, COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other Senators
SPOKEN BY PROSPERO
It is a pretty youth: not very pretty:
[Aside]  O, give ye good even! here's a million of manners.
Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts
The good-years shall devour them, flesh and fell,
Yours, Cinna, and, my valiant Casca, yours,
A subtle traitor needs no sophister.
True, so I am.
He hath no friends but who are friends for fear.
Come, come, you paraquito, answer me
The young Dumain, a well-accomplished youth,
When I would pray and think, I think and pray
Help, ye citizens!
No interim, not a minute's vacancy,
For on that ground I'll build a holy descant:
with a piece of toasted cheese.
They're welcome all, let 'em have kind admittance:
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
For that's the end of human misery.
Hath broke their hearts. March, noble lord,
To venge me as I may and to put forth
To enter our Rome gates: i' the people's name,
I pray you now, remembrance tomorrow on the lousy
See, see, King Richard doth himself appear,
Both one and other he denies me now.
Fell Warwick's brother and by that our foe.
a jakes with him. Spare my gray beard, you wagtail?
Turn face to face and bloody point to point,
come unbutton here.
And to speak troth, I have forgot our way:
This day I'll wear aloft my burgonet,
To follow Caesar in his triumph, since
troll-my-dames, I knew him once a servant of the
I'll buy him of you.
They are too thin and bare to hide offences.
Bear the boy hence, he shall not come about her,
Dream of success and happy victory!
This gentleman of mine hath served me long:
You have seen and proved a fairer former fortune
If underneath the standard of the French
Agamemnon is a fool, Achilles is a fool, Thersites
Sir?
She had her breeding at my father's charge.
He could have temporized.
give me, in your conscience, now?
But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines
The great prerogative and rite of love,
In what have I offended you? what cause
born to be hanged, our case is miserable.
Yet one word more: grief boundeth where it falls,
they feared the death, they have borne life away,
We go wrong, we go wrong.
Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill! Slay!
So help me God, as I dissemble not!
To be shame's scorn and subject of mischance!
O you immortal gods! I will not go.
is past, it is, 'never tire.'
But Tuesday night last gone in's garden-house
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
He calls us rebels, traitors, and will scourge
Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more
And leave not one alive, I live in hell.
Exit with Third Fisherman
Basting.
Let us assail the family of York.
Wherefore that box?
heart to repent. Here he comes: I pray you, make
Falls on the bed, and dies
Enter ORLANDO
So little of his great self.
How high a pitch his resolution soars!
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
To tender objects, but he in heat of action
'tis, here's my mother's breath up and down. Now
And might not gain so great a happiness
Yes, troth, and troth, you would not be a queen?
Good morrow to your lordship.
That, as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
the duke we talk of were returned again: the
For ever housed where it gets possession.
The grief is fine, full, perfect, that I taste,
To make against your highness' claim to France
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
[Beneath]  Swear.
Boy, what sign is it when a man of great spirit
And who sits here that is not Richard's subject?
Your liberties and the charters that you bear
Imploring pardon.
I prithee, give no limits to my tongue:
Salutes each other with each other's form,
Some comfort, nurse.
Which, I presume, he'll take in gentle part.
But stir not you till you have well determined
As bombast and as lining to the time:
Ha!
Confirm'd, confirm'd! O, that is stronger made
I had a thing to say, but let it go:
For powers in Scotland, which, for divers reasons
That grew the more by reaping: his delights
O brother, help me with thy fainting hand--
But on this travail look for greater birth.
Our noble general, do not do so.
Young Arthur is my son, and he is lost:
Which elder days shall ripen and confirm
How!
What noise is this I hear? Dare any be so bold to
All things are ready, if our minds be so.
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Myself and you, son Harry, will towards Wales,
excellent jests, fire-new from the mint, you should
De foot, madame, et de coun.
Shall draw him on to his confusion:
In soft and delicate Lethe.
What should I do? I confess it is my shame to be so
Break up the seals and read.
It were not for your quiet nor your good,
SCENE II. LEWIS's camp at St. Edmundsbury.
We like not this, thou dost forget thyself.
Exeunt
Enter HUBERT
that time the jealous rascally knave her husband
ye for a young prince, i' faith.
The Trojan trumpets sound the like, my lord.
the arm's end: I will here be with thee presently,
What shall I say? Where's satisfaction?
How many make the hour full complete,
Enter FALSTAFF disguised as Herne
Enter RICHARD, EDWARD, and MONTAGUE
notable fellow.
Nay, by my faith, I think you are more beholding to
unto whom I was going, I shall there have money, or
Elizabeth.
ANTIPHOLUS
amity shall prove the immediate author of their
My scars can witness, dumb although they are,
When it is all to nought, and his quails ever
I weigh it lightly, were it heavier.
But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap?
Enter a Messenger
To bring him in! Trust me, I could do much,--
Those tender limbs of thine to the event
Dexterity so obeying appetite
Away at once with love or jealousy!
Why give you me this shame?
O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
Ay, rather than I'll shame my mother's womb.
I hope the king made peace with all of us
Yes, I have gained my experience.
As it were sin to doubt--that love this painting
And this way have you well expounded it.
Whose watery arch and messenger am I,
Falling on Diomed.
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive,  They are the ground, the books, the academes From whence doth spring the true Promethean fire
to-night: I shall beseech your lordship to remain
Trudge, plod away o' the hoof, seek shelter, pack!
So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,
Fairness which strikes the eye--
Enlarge the man committed yesterday,
What the devil should move me to undertake the
His charters and his customary rights,
Mother, I am going to the market-place,
And with thy daring folly burn the world?
My staff? here, noble Henry, is my staff:
What sum owes he the Jew?
fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour: he hath
That this distemper'd messenger of wet,
I know thee well: a serviceable villain,
O king, believe not this hard-hearted man!
shall undo a whole household, let me be gelded like
Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul
His friend that dips in the same dish? for, in
life, but in respect that it is a shepherd's life,
I know that we shall have him well to friend.
From youth of such a season, 'fore noble Lucius
This is old Ninny's tomb. Where is my love?
Do you not hope your children shall be kings,
Whom they have ravish'd must by me be slain.
The loss of those three lords torments my heart:
Excuse, it is to beat usurping down.
Music within
Have one man but a man? And that is it
Even to my full of view.
And sit at chiefest stern of public weal.
To wait, said I? to wanton with this queen,
Prompted you in the ebb of your estate
chamber matter of it: if he were twenty Sir John
'Tis Nestor right. Now play him me, Patroclus,
Flout 'em and scout 'em
Therefore, good cousin, let not Harry know,
What did the Russian whisper in your ear?
And with thy scorns drew'st rivers from his eyes,
false to him: do not you know of him, but yet go
Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there,
on her, for they ride up and down on her and make
'Item: She doth talk in her sleep.'
O Scotland, Scotland!
To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your
Most worthy madam,
We'll bring him to his house
Which now came from him.
Of this proud king, who studies day and night
I pray you, after the lieutenant, go.
But she did scorn a present that I sent her.
However this may gall him with some cheque,
Invites the King of England's stay at home,
Where there is beauty, truth, where semblance, love,
But if it were, doubt not her care should be
In faith, he is a worthy gentleman,
Yet, for I know thou art religious
But I have that within which passeth show,
List his discourse of war, and you shall hear
That shows thou art unconfirmed. Thou knowest that
My hand hath been but idle, let it serve
O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint,
Why, so I am, in mind, and that's enough.
That all the court admired him for submission:
higher, or return again into France?
How now, good fellow! why shakest thou so? Fear
Knocking within
To gripe the general sway into your hand,
By heaven, I saw my handkerchief in's hand.
will be a biting affliction.
Thou'ldst meet the bear i' the mouth. When the
That is, to watch her, as we watch these kites
with us to the king.
of work, which not to have been blest withal would
For when you should be told they do prepare,
Nay, I know not.
Will you to Scone?
Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule
Worthies, away! the scene begins to cloud.
I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.
Was rightful heir unto the English crown
Command the conquest, Charles, it shall be thine,
I'll have it so. My steward!
That all the courts of France will be disturb'd
And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,
Her very silence and her patience
O, you sir, you, come you hither, sir: who am I,
Nor spell nor charm,
I'll apply
festival purses, and had not the old man come in
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
He is the half part of a blessed man,
Put up your swords, you know not what you do.
We'll do thee homage and be ruled by thee,
goodness, that the dissolution of it must cure it:
Save those to God, that run before our business.
That I have borne your father?
as Volscians. They are rising, they are rising.
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
We therefore have great cause of thankfulness,
But when I tell him he hates flatterers,
'Twas sin before, but now 'tis charity.
nor crop the ears of them.
Uncle, how now!
And tell them that, to ease them of their griefs,
Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?
But as well? then you are mad indeed, if you be no
And see it instantly consumed with fire,
And with him rises weeping: these are flowers
I take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.
Lord Saturninus Rome's great emperor,
Peace, peace!
summer-birds are men. Gentlemen, our dinner will not
Peace, peace, be not so loud.
Till I do challenge it. Give him the crowns:
No doubt, my lord.
Will not so graceless be to be ingrate.
But Saturnine? Full well, Andronicus,
Nay, come your ways:
the fool should be as oft with your master as with
I, by the honour of my marriage-bed,
Opens the letter, and reads
That the world masters. Now, in faith, Gratiano,
Your resolution cannot hold, when 'tis
Will be himself.
Or worthily, as a good subject should,
As in a title-page, your worth in arms,
Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
'Item: She will often praise her liquor.'
The gods confound--hear me, you good gods all--
Of their afflictions, and shall not myself,
And therefore, living hence, did give ourself
Exeunt
Thou wear a lion's hide! doff it for shame,
Give us some seats. Come, cousin Angelo,
To guard the chicken from a hungry kite,
Aside
Mark it, nuncle:
To be acknowledged, madam, is o'erpaid.
Leap in with me into this angry flood,
I cannot blame her: by God's holy mother,
her to trial. Thine, in all compliments of devoted
Look then to be well edified when the fool delivers
Hold your hand, my lord:
and for so much as I have perused, I find it not
As she is prized to have--as to refuse
Bless thee, bully doctor!
A lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled
So, weeping, smiling, greet I thee, my earth,
She may help you to many fair preferments,
It then remains
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell,
Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would,
to go to bed now: come, knight, come, knight.
I am not sick, if Brutus have in hand
By heaven, I will acquaint his majesty
consent to die this day, that's certain.
For God doth know how many now in health
this is called the Quip Modest. If again 'it was
Tut, holy Joan was his defensive guard.
Here feel we but the penalty of Adam,
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS QUICKLY
Yea, my good lord.
Or my divine soul answer it in heaven.
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY, and forces, WARWICK, GLOUCESTER, EXETER, and others
I will come last. 'Tis like he'll question me
And this was it I gave him, being abed.
Show his eyes, and grieve his heart,
But to maintain the king, the realm and you?
As rootedly as I. Burn but his books.
Ajax goes up and down the field, asking for himself.
But still sweet love is food for fortune's tooth.
Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit.
Good night, sir. My Octavia,
Whither the queen intends. Forward, away!
Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.
Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels
SCENE I. OLIVIA's garden.
Mark Antony is every hour in Rome
That borrow their behaviors from the great,
To-morrow! O, that's sudden! Spare him, spare him!
That labouring art can never ransom nature
Father, I warrant you, take you no care,
Let's write good angel on the devil's horn:
For I am rightful heir unto the crown.
When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow,
SCENE III. A street leading to the Park.
Your oath I will not trust, but go with speed
His peace with Rome? What is that peace to me?
Send word to you he would be there to-morrow.
What was his cause of anger?
That, like a jewel, has hung twenty years
would sleep till I waked him, you should half his
foot-land rakers, no long-staff sixpenny strikers,
Although they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,
Who calls?
Writing
Some never-heard-of torturing pain for them.
sincerely: had I a dozen sons, each in my love
Of thrice three times the value of this bond.
I come to bring him sleep. 'Tis such as you,
Did quarrel with the noblest grace she owed
Landlord of England art thou now, not king:
Which runs himself and catches for his master.
Enter OTHELLO
Nay, truly, sir, I could never say grace in all my life.
appoint him a meeting, give him a show of comfort in
And who shines now but Henry's enemies?
It shall suffice me: at which interview
Necessity's sharp pinch! Return with her?
Ambassadors from Harry King of England
think him as concave as a covered goblet or a
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, DOLABELLA, MECAENAS, GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, and others, his council of war
Till his deserts are past, begin to throw
I'll make her render up her page to me.
The hostess-ship o' the day.
To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
Hark, Greek: as much as I do Cressid love,
Thy brat hath been cast out, like to itself,
More that I may call men than you, good friend,
The town is empty, on the brow o' the sea
Instructs you how to adore the heavens and bows you
Well are you welcome to the open air.
May turn by fortune from the weaker hand:
To bury so much gold under a tree,
Notable pirate! thou salt-water thief!
Yes, forsooth: I wish you joy o' the worm.
Do all lie there: it shall be so my care
truth, nor honesty in this bosom of thine, it is all
More than in words?
Trumpets, hautboys, drums beat, all together
that I utterly deny. If sack and sugar be a fault,
Enter ROBIN
The Earl of Douglas is discomfited:
Faith, as cold as can be.
ACT I
And draw their honours reeking up to heaven,
No judge indifferent, nor no more assurance
I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,--
When grief, and blood ill-temper'd, vexeth him?
One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her
Sweet invocation of a child, most pretty and
Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
For kissing, lady, not for such contempt.
Master, has my fellow Tranio stolen your clothes? Or
My father, in his habit as he lived!
But have I fall'n, or no?
Both, both. O, pardon!
Never yet did base dishonour blur our name,
Mum.
Worthily spoken, Mecaenas.
Your grandfather of famous memory, an't please your
Grandam, we can, for my good uncle Gloucester
are come to search the house. Shall I let them in?
In that each of you have forsworn his book,
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Shall be a wall sufficient to defend
Has spoken like a traitor, and shall answer
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
Here comes the emperor.
O most bloody sight!
But tie him not to be their bedfellow.
With caution that the Florentine will move us
ACT IV
ballads, we'll buy the other things anon.
Forty let it be:
Now, in good time, here comes the Duke of York.
Traitors!
Enter DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, LEONATO, FRIAR FRANCIS, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, HERO, BEATRICE, and Attendants
Take away this villain, shut him up.
As witting I no other comfort have.
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
More direful hap betide that hated wretch,
That I was worse than nothing, for, indeed,
O, while you live, tell truth and shame the devil!
In change of him: let him be sent, great princes,
To smile at scapes and perils overblown.
Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,
[Aside]  Nay, John, it will be stinking law for his
And, from the place where you behold us now,
Form such another? This is the very top,
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
Then am I king'd again: and by and by
And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.'
The benediction of these covering heavens
Fulvia is dead.
he? How looked he? Wherein went he? What makes
Thrust these reproachful speeches down his throat
Pucelle, that witch, that damned sorceress,
At what was all this laughing?
Thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations.
acquainted him with the cause in controversy between
To stranger blood, to foreign royalty.
Cleopatra,
May bare the raven's eye! I lodge in fear,
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
All my engagements I will construe to thee,
Your grace shall well and quietly enjoy.
where is Anne Page, by gar, he deceive me too.
How now, Tubal! what news from Genoa? hast thou
A needy, hollow-eyed, sharp-looking wretch,
Says that you savour too much of your youth,
How was it?
I have advertised him by secret means
Is not this strange?
The most opportune place, the strong'st suggestion.
With his mail'd hand then wiping, forth he goes,
At difference in thee: out of that I'll work
For the deposing of a rightful king.
Enter MARCUS ANDRONICUS, aloft, with the crown
Between these woolly breeders in the act,
the soldier than in the scholar.
He shall have every day a several greeting,
That is my bed too, lads, an there I'll lie:
Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick,
declined, Singulariter, nominativo, hic, haec, hoc.
SCENE II. The same. A public place.
you shall speed in your journey's end, I think you'll
Old Nestor tarries, and you too, Diomed,
Stood in your action.
gain by you.
Let us go thank him and encourage him:
This expedition was by York and Talbot
A good riddance.
When 't pleased you to employ me.
To weep their intermissive miseries.
Of the right reverend Cardinal of York.
My banquet is to close our stomachs up,
And you, sir! you are welcome.
Well, give her that ring and therewithal
Do not smile at me that I boast her off,
Than I of yours,
Lie there for pavement to the abject rear,
Exeunt
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
To reel the streets at noon, and stand the buffet
To him from whom you brought them.
Love bade me swear and Love bids me forswear.
There is no more but so: say it is done,
Well, well, he was the covert'st shelter'd traitor
There's difference in no persons.
The sheriff and all the watch are at the door: they
With striving less to be so, lesser had been
'Keep it, my Pericles, it hath been a shield
Pride went before, ambition follows him.
Thy wife, too! that's some wrong, indeed. What's
O Jesu, I have heard the prince tell him, I know not
Usurps the regal title and the seat
To go along with us, for as we think,
Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
Stand gracious to the rites that we intend!
As well as it does you: and I should do it
Look, who comes here: will you be chid?
How comes it then that thou art call'd a king,
My lord, I do protest--
Ay, sir, when he goes before me.
You to a long and well-deserved bed:
And bring along these rascal knaves with thee?
As will not leave their tinct.
The Dian of that time so doth my wife
Enter two Murderers
By drunken prophecies, libels and dreams,
Menenius ever, ever.
is the moral of it, that she is turning, and
A good sharp fellow: I will send for him, and
heart of flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up
Is there division 'twixt my lord and Cassio?
And those swearings keep as true in soul
For an abuser of the world, a practiser
I know not where is that Promethean heat
Who's best in favour. Let the music knock it.
And did supply thee at thy garden-house
That it but mocks reproof.
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:
The other half in use, to render it,
O my lord,
That noseless, handless, hack'd and chipp'd, come to him,
As for thee, boy, go get thee from my sight,
Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword,
I did commend your highness' letters to them,
Humbly, sir, I thank you.
Exit
Comfort, my sovereign! gracious Henry, comfort!
And God befriend us, as our cause is just!
SCENE IV. Tyre. A room in the Governor's house.
To revel it with him and his new bride:
Look like the time, bear welcome in your eye,
I'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool,
Sans fable, she herself reviled you there.
Shall't be to-night at supper?
yet he talked wisely, and in the street too.
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
Is that temptation that doth goad us on
Loved as my father, as my master follow'd,
Well, the voice goes, madam:
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
So get you hence in peace, and tell the Dauphin
O, coward that I am, to live so long,
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and RIVERS
The rarest of all women.
My hope is gone, now Suffolk is deceased.
'Faith, that he did--I know not what he did.
Importune him for my moneys, be not ceased
Whereto the climber-upward turns his face,
Hearing of this.
obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold
you shall go by him.
grows bald by nature.
Alas, poor country!
Can any way speak in his just commend,
SCENE I. A room in the Garter Inn.
Whose credit with the judge, or own great place,
But though slow, deadly?
Without more mercy, to its own protection
Thou mightst be freed.
leave these rogues, I am the veriest varlet that
Sir Thurio, give us leave, I pray, awhile,
was a star danced, and under that was I born.
Defacers of a public peace, than I do.
Is sorer than to lie for need, and falsehood
That babies lulls asleep! the smiles of knaves
Like to a tenement or pelting farm:
To say my mother's name was Thaisa?
What news, what news, in this our tottering state?
I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief,
To know our further pleasure in this case,
[Within]                 Come I too late?
As many vouched rarities are.
a very good blade! a very tall man! a very good
Mark what I say. Attend me where I wheel:
By your firm promise: Gremio is out-vied.
Either for life or death, upon the earth
That thou return'st no greeting to thy friends?
That the time's enemies may not have this
Whom their o'er-cloyed country vomits forth
Very ill too.
Turn this way, Henry, and regard them not.
And so it is: I wonder what it bodes.
Which I will over-pay and pay again
Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst
Ha, ha!
Only I carry winged time
A most singular and choice epithet.
Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits:
Let them accuse me by invention, I
What, my lord?
God, sir, and he hath enough.
The badges of his grief and patience,
Swords! any thing, he cares not, an the devil come
This unhair'd sauciness and boyish troops,
a boot is here with this exchange! Sure the gods do
Come, come, let us thither: this may prove food to
In mine own person, holp to reap the fame
lord the king, thy royal husband: the pretence
To me for justice and rough chastisement,
For shame! in duty bend thy knee to me
Not half so old as that. I'll write against them,
Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town.
That I can find should merit any hate.
Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage,
bear my bottle: fellow Trinculo, we'll fill him by
To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
Let him be crown'd, in him your comfort lives:
The date is out of such prolixity:
The shot of accident, nor dart of chance,
Most thoroughly for my father.
your 'quaes,' and your 'quods,' you must be
Pray God he be not angry.
May this be possible? may this be true?
in friendship, and I will one way or other make you amends.
The motto thus, in Spanish, 'Piu por dulzura que por fuerza.'
And misbegotten blood I spill of thine,
Old Helicanus goes along behind.
And gentle Longaville, where lies thy pain?
Madam, here is a letter from my lord.
ANTIPHOLUS
From thee, my boy, and had the maidenhood
The breese upon her, like a cow in June,
Was re-united to the crown of France.
And in this kind hath our Cleon
Ay, so I think.
What now, Lucilius! is Cassius near?
His insolence draws folly from my lips,
And well deserved: not helping, death's my fee,
Enter CAPULET and Nurse
Rogue, rogue, rogue!
Then, York, be still awhile, till time do serve:
That Rome can make against them.
There's toys abroad: anon I'll tell thee more.
Yet Hermia still loves you: then be content.
That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot
A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd
And I mine too, good Lord!
All-hallond eve.
Look, here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers.
I have long loved her, and, I protest to you,
Content thee, prince, I will restore to thee
Dost thou hear, Iago?
And feel I am so most. O Antony,
'Tis that they seek, and they in seeking that
notorious bawd.
Inform'd them! Dost thou understand me, man?
O Cassius, if you could
If she did know me one. Away with her!
Then there's life in't. Nay, if you get it, you
Ring the alarum-bell. Murder and treason!
His eye begets occasion for his wit,
But yet I love my country, and am not
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
Mehercle, if their sons be ingenuous, they shall
We speak no treason, man: we say the king
lady mother I am returning, entertained my convoy,
'Twould not do.
Proper deformity seems not in the fiend
My lord?
How much thou wrong'st me, heaven be my judge.
Is she not then beholding to the man
Together, to consider further that
This is no place, this house is but a butchery:
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
Shaken with sorrows in ungrateful Rome.
Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey-cock.
What error drives our eyes and ears amiss?
But what thou art besides, thou wert too base
thou the beggar, for so witnesseth thy lowliness.
To stand the push and enmity of those
So much she doteth on her Mortimer.
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
Varro's Servant	I fear it.
I say, yea.
Insinuation, parley and base truce
For then she never looks upon her lure.
Go, count thy way with sighs, I mine with groans.
wantons, down!' 'Twas her brother that, in pure
Renowned duke, vouchsafe to take the pains
Dites-moi l'Anglois pour le bras.
Reads
out, there are members to make new. If there were
I will subscribe for thee, thou art both knave and fool.
I long with all my heart to see the prince:
Besides, Antonio certified the duke
From first to last, the onset and retire
For many good and great deserts to Rome:
What was the impediment that broke this off?
I am glad to see your worships well.
become me: my way is to conjure you, and I'll begin
There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my
that may not sully the chariness of our honesty. O,
Indies, and I will trade to them both. Go bear thou
Sound to this coward and lascivious town
Where? when? what vizard? why demand you this?
What shall we do else? were we not born under Taurus?
What news abroad?
And shall she carry this unto her grave?
my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
All points of my command.
I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,
the passado he respects not, the duello he regards
Thou hast sworn my love to be.
Nay, I would have you go before me thither.
And on set purpose let his armour rust
As benefits to thee, for I will fight
Which when they fall, as being slippery standers,
What, amazed
Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter-cricket thou!
And thou mis-shapen Dick, I tell ye all
For us, we will consider of this further:
a brown favour--for so 'tis, I must confess,--
[Aside]  I know them all, though they suppose me mad,
Go after him, for he perhaps shall need
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
Look, here I have you, thus I let you go,
to an hundred mischiefs, and makes them leave me
Would 'twere so!
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
Which he calls interest. Cursed be my tribe,
My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently.
Of Roman gentlemen, by the senate sent.
I will not hold thee long: if I do live,
The baby figure of the giant mass
So many weeks ere the poor fools will ean:
As lively painted as the deed was done.
falsely accused by the villain.
Have their free voices: Rome, the nurse of judgment,
Had I so good occasion to lie long
instance? Tongue, I must put you into a
wing. Therefore when he sees reason of fears, as we
Therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt,
Caesar!
Be born another such.
Sir!
Bequeath to death your numbness, for from him
From the true seed of honour! and how much honour
between France and him. Pray you, let's hit
Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve
These dangerous unsafe lunes i' the king,
Belike you slew great number of his people.
It comes upon me. Art thou any thing?
Did utter forth a voice. Yes, thou must die:
And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds
Tigers must prey, and Rome affords no prey
Enter FRIAR PETER
is his: I ha' told him on't, but I could ne'er get
Can be retentive to the strength of spirit,
By any likelihood he show'd to-day?
Is prisoner to the foe, his state usurp'd,
What, sir, not yet at rest? The king's a-bed:
Say not so, Agrippa:
But Cassius is no more. O setting sun,
[Speaking together]  How now!
Why, what an intricate impeach is this!
Their bloody sign of battle is hung out,
On Saturday we will return to France.
Corrupt, corrupt, and tainted in desire!
Let him be punish'd, sovereign, lest example
As holy oil, Edward Confessor's crown,
'Tis very like.
Even then this forked plague is fated to us
Exeunt
Why 'her unhappy brother'? let me ask,
Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
I bade the rascal knock upon your gate
redeliver our authorities there
And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
I charge thee, be not thou more grieved than I am.
Ha!
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and
Albany than Cornwall.
Give him that parting kiss which I had set
'Odours,' 'pregnant' and 'vouchsafed:' I'll get 'em
When you were there?
The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger:
The number of the king exceedeth ours:
But such a day to-morrow as to-day,
bottom, like the bay of Portugal.
Then so much have I heard:
And appetite, an universal wolf,
And word it, prithee, piteously: hence, Mardian,
I see by you I am a sweet-faced youth.
Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
To take in many towns ere almost Rome
Her mother hath many times told me so.
I might have look'd upon my queen's full eyes,
Ask what thou wilt. That I had said and done!
Your grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.
That wait for execution in the morn.
Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much
And, soldiers, stay and lodge by me this night.
Thy lips that kiss'd the queen shall sweep the ground,
beats her heart, tears her hair, prays, curses, 'O
Whether it like me or no, I am a courtier. Seest
We'll have dancing afterward.
I'll join with black despair against my soul,
At the hour of nine.
Farewell, every one.
This was my speech, and I will speak't again--
With accusations, as I hear, more strong
Poor Clifford! how I scorn his worthless threats!
How parted he with thee? and when shalt thou see
To the forfended place?
'O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth!'
Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish
To live in prayer and contemplation,
And never look upon thy face again.
Were to remember that the present need
Though angel on the outward side!
The spirit of wantonness is, sure, scared out of
Is she wedded or no?
To which the Grecians are most prompt and pregnant:
Why do the emperor's trumpets flourish thus?
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and some Attendants
For often, with a solemn earnestness,
big enough for him otherwise he might put on a hat,
Many good nights, my lord: I rest your servant.
Thy skipping spirit, lest through thy wild behavior
Let me have Hermia's: do you marry him.
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
[Aside]  And worse I may be yet: the worst is not
Pardon me, Edward, I will make amends:
This prince hath neither claim'd it nor deserved it,
Afore me! it is so very very late,
Here is a mourning Rome, a dangerous Rome,
And left thee there, where thou didst vent thy groans
Let's to the altar: heralds, wait on us:
belongs to a watch.
How now! why look'st thou pale? why tremblest thou?
To verify our title with their lives.
Yes, but you will my noble grapes, an if
The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and LADY GREY
he is best, he is a little worse than a man, and
I but believe it partly,
'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady: we may pick a
Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
To some retention and appointed guard,
Will purchase us a good opinion
For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
way to the pox. Here comes the Lord Lysimachus disguised.
You tell her so, must she not then be answer'd?
I have no brother, I am like no brother,
Are to the world in general as to Caesar.
Would cast the gorge at, this embalms and spices
Play fast and loose with faith? so jest with heaven,
Before you venture for me. I could teach you
How canst thou tell she will deny thy suit,
Here enter'd Pucelle and her practisants,
Upon the wounds his body bears, which show
Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile,
This is no mortal business, nor no sound
Fairly offer'd.
And at that time I made her weep agood,
fanatical phantasimes, such insociable and
Of fortunate Caesar, drawn before him, branded
Hippolyta, I woo'd thee with my sword,
A father and a friend to thee and Rome.
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
for my part, the sea cannot drown me, I swam, ere I
What, art thou come? On, gentlemen, away!
To thy further fear,
Nay, never paint me now:
To his music plants and flowers
'Twas you we laughed at.
All their petitions are as freely theirs
Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels,
Which have, like unscour'd armour, hung by the wall
That can my speech defuse, my good intent
Till the disaster that, one mortal night,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
And we did think it writ down in our duty
When once she is my wife.
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
I cannot blame them all: what is't to them?
you, and their daughters profit very greatly under
The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts
Shall bear the business in some other fight,
His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
When did she cross thee with a bitter word?
And yet the steer, the heifer and the calf
Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
This way will I disrobe the images,
And, if you may confess it, say withal,
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses,
apparel and to cry like a woman, but I must comfort
Until my husband bid me.
I went to seek him: in the street I met him
Is this great Agamemnon's tent, I pray you?
And will he steal out of his wholesome bed,
Is't possible that so short a time can alter the
But I know none, and therefore am no beast.
Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.
The Bull, being gall'd, gave Aries such a knock
Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
First he did praise my beauty, then my speech.
Labouring to save his life, and would not rather
The nonpareil of this. O, vengeance, vengeance!
God safely quit her of her burthen, and
The devil take one party and his dam the other! and
Away with slavish weeds and servile thoughts!
The passage and whole carriage of this action
parting. Nay, I'll show you the manner of it. This
Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend.
Why, then the maid is mine from all the world,
How you do leave me to mine own protection.
And back to Athens shall the lovers wend,
Mark Antony I served, who best was worthy
hand, help me to a candle, and pen, ink and paper:
Enter a second Servingman
That dies in tempest of thy angry frown.
Have power to raise such love in mine,
they are married: but thou art too fine in thy
SCENE III. The same.
If I refuse to wed Demetrius.
My daughter Katharina is to be married:
Her nine farrow, grease that's sweaten
What, what! the lustful sons of Tamora
Barkloughly castle call they this at hand?
While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.
ANTIPHOLUS
at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the
nieces, Mercutio and his brother Valentine, mine
his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife.
The king my father shall be made acquainted
Intelligence is given where you are hid,
himself. Certainly the Jew is the very devil
E'en so, sir, as I say. And, for thy fiction,
The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
Or, if there were a sympathy in choice,
Give me thy hand: I am sorry I beat thee, but,
virtues it was, but he was certainly whipped out of the court.
Now, for not looking on a woman's face,
Re-enter JULIET, above
SCENE I. Rome. Before a gate of the city.
Me and thy crying self.
Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me:
How is't with you?
What is your news?
Helen's cheek, but not her heart,
I will dispatch you severally, you to Lord Lucius,
Spur to the rescue of the noble Talbot,
There wants no diligence in seeking him,
Give me my Romeo, and, when he shall die,
And follow unacquainted colours here?
Master constable,--
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
Marry, at my house. Trust me, I think 'tis almost
O' my troth, most sweet jests! most incony
Here cometh Charles: I marvel how he sped.
The king has done you wrong: but, hush, 'tis so.
And smote him, thus.
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
Thou makest the triumviry, the corner-cap of society,
Which, by the heavens' assistance and your strength,
It shall be still thy true love's recompense:
Which contradicts my accusation and
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats,
The time is troublesome.
Well, God give her good rest! What hath he sent her?
Take him hence, to the rack with him! We'll touse you
He prays but faintly and would be denied,
It is, my lord.
Escaped the hunt. No port is free, no place,
Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming,
Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out
Something, sure, of state,
Thou bear's thy heavy riches but a journey,
Two hundred ducats.
Give me some breath, some little pause, my lord
that: heaven knows what she has known.
A notable lubber, as thou reportest him to be.
And send you many lovers!
What of him? he is
Stand fair, I pray thee: let me look on thee.
I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown.
The standing of his body.
And Edward Duke of Bar: of lusty earls,
Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools:
So soon as dinner's done, we'll forth again,
And I had rather glib myself than they
Which you know cannot err: the love I bear him
SCENE I. London. The Parliament-house.
But life, being weary of these worldly bars,
Therefore, my lords, omit no happy hour
Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
The abject people gazing on thy face,
beseech your worship to correct yourself, for the
And for his sake I wish the having of it,
Give ground, if you see him furious.
That Angelo is an adulterous thief,
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
In the remembrance of a weeping queen.
My curses on her!
On him that thus doth tyrannize o'er me.
Any beginning to this peevish odds,
The wise and fool, the artist and unread,
He says, for Brutus' sake,
me?--that most are affected to these.
My first son.
with him, I'll have an action of battery against
So did we all. But, come, let's home.
no greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hath
another style.
dare not swear thou lovest me, yet my blood begins to
Fly to the duke:
I know, madam, you love your gentlewoman entirely.
Into two parties, is now conjoined in one,
You shall have An fool's-head of your own. No, I
No, lord ambassador, I'll rather keep
Well may you prosper!
If the law would allow it, sir.
And answer me declined, sword against sword,
On the bat's back I do fly
Again!
Moulded the stuff so fair,
pretty chopt hands had milked, and I remember the
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND and others
So soon as that spare Cassius. He reads much,
Question your grace the late ambassadors,
Come hither, William, hold up your head, come.
Now, sirs: by'r lady, you fought fair, so did you,
Hear me without thine ears, and make reply
It is writ to Jaquenetta.
Nay, he reserved a blanket, else we had been all shamed.
This very day a Syracusian merchant
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS, disguised, with others as Fairies
To-morrow all for speeding do their best.
Upon his death-bed he by will bequeath'd
As unrelenting flint to drops of rain.
off.
I'll make thee an example.
None but friends: say boldly.
There is no tarrying here, the hart Achilles
Then learn this of me: to have, is to have, for it
I know they are stuff'd with protestations
Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
An empty casket, where the jewel of life
Resolve thee, Richard, claim the English crown.
Go we to him.
Who I'll entreat to lead me.
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
And see our moonlight revels, go with us,
Exit First Player
It cannot be: some villains of my court
For fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue.
the bastard is fled from Messina: you have among
Let your breath cool yourself, telling your haste.
I will seek him, sir, presently: convey the
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
promise ye, I fear you. I was always plain with
Which comes to punish us, and we punish it
And, that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st,
And let your mind be coupled with your words.
Born out of your dominions, having here
I did look upon.
I could be well moved, if I were as you:
Should from yond cloud speak divine things,
My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar,
Look, how this ring encompasseth finger.
counsellor, or no?
O that my prayers could such affection move!
given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself
And more above, hath his solicitings,
I was, and held me glad of such a doom.
Enough to fetch him in. See it done:
Leap'd from his eyes: so looks the chafed lion
If to have done the thing you gave in charge
This is a strange abuse. Let's see thy face.
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
Repeat their semblance often on the seas,
No, in truth.
Giving a paper
They go up
And, with thy hand, thy faith irrevocable,
That wished him on the barren mountains starve.
left pap. In faith, secrets!
That I, being govern'd by the watery moon,
Enter a Shepherd
If Henry were recall'd to life again,
You'll ne'er be friends with him, a' kill'd your sister.
How now, my noble lord? what, all afoot?
Why should a man, whose blood is warm within,
Well, Hal, well, and in some sort it jumps with my
I say, sing.
It stands as an edict in destiny:
What a loss our ladies
And she will speak most bitterly and strange.
I wish him joy of her.
your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
Nay, by God, soft, I know a trick worth two of that, i' faith.
Within this wooden O the very casques
Hang over thee, as, sure, it shortly will,
And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.
house, and some to Casca's, some to Ligarius': away, go!
I do forget.
I am not well: send the deed after me,
Devil or devil's dam, I'll conjure thee:
To fair Marina, but in no wise
Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may:
Thus thrust disorderly into my hands,
And that I partly know the instrument
Wherefore hast thou accused him all this while?
Nor night nor day no rest: it is but weakness
Without the king's will or the state's allowance,
Ay, my lord.
Exeunt
Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.
longer than they can sing? will they not say
confirm my speech.
You are a fair viol, and your sense the strings,
church, take the priest, clerk, and some sufficient
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
Of heavy Pericles, think this his bark:
As maids of thirteen do of puppy-dogs!
O devil, devil!
And he ended the market.
When neither are alive.
Away with me, all you whose souls abhor
That go before it.
Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain,
Faster than spring-time showers comes thought
Than this, which to reiterate were sin
I have many enemies in Orsino's court,
Itself, and all my treason, that I suffer'd
Are mortised and adjoin'd, which, when it falls,
In faith, I will, la, never trust me else.
Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou
And bow'd her hand to teach her fingering,
Being naked, sick, nor fane nor Capitol,
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
I should be author to dishonour you!
Disguising what they are.
before him.
Come our lovely lady nigh,
To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how
Good madonna, why mournest thou?
To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool
I'll have her, and if it be a match, as nothing is
Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler, no bolts for the dead.
For God's sake, let not us two be behind,
But death doth front thee with apparent spoil
And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls,
That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall.
throw it to.
philosophers hold that the lips is parcel of the
Where lies he?
From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love,
As a friend.
When Cassio left my wife: what didst not like?
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a
If you can make't apparent
Why thou damnable box of envy, thou, what meanest
Feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods.
ACT IV
O, think upon the conquest of my father,
Than Aquitaine so gelded as it is.
But that you shall not say I yield being silent,
And change misdoubt to resolution:
Have loved it too: I would not change this hue,
Sons, let it be your charge, as it is ours,
But 'twas ere I was born.
Shrouded in cloth of state, balm'd and entreasured
neither to his father nor to me, to go about to make
Come, come, Thersites, help to trim my tent:
But chiefly for thy face and thy behavior,
Cry: 'St. George,' 'A Talbot.'
I'll steal away.
He would depart, I'll give some light unto you.
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me,
SCENE III. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Write, write, that from the bloody course of war
I will: and therefore keep it. Rosaline,
I'll buckler thee against a million.
Yes, faith, my lord.
swallowed with yest and froth, as you'ld thrust a
Blow me into abhorring! rather make
[To HERO]  Well, niece, I trust you will be ruled
If Brutus so unkindly knock'd, or no,
But by the chance of war, to prove that true
The plainer dealer, the sooner lost: yet he loseth
My mother a Plantagenet,--
O, who hath any cause to mourn but I?
I doubt not but thy training hath been noble.
As fair as day.
If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot
Go with me to my tent, where you shall see
body, horse to ride, and weapon to wear,
Well, I am your theme: you have the start of me, I
Come, stretch thy chest and let thy eyes spout blood,
I' the filthy-mantled pool beyond your cell,
myself, and what remains is bestial. My reputation,
In part for his sake moved.
Lay a more noble thought upon mine honour
They know that do accuse me, I know none:
As any cordial comfort. Still, methinks,
To watch the night in storms, the day in cold,
Enter BRAKENBURY
Who, but for dreaming on this fond exploit,
Of common ounces? will you with counters sum
Circumstantial and the Lie Direct.
Ay, madam, with his eyes in flood with laughter:
To a most dangerous sea, the beauteous scarf
Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen.
Re-enter LUCIUS, with wine and taper
To help him to his grave immediately!
O, yes, and went between us very oft.
These news, my lord, may cheer our drooping spirits:
Go home, John Rugby, I come anon.
Stay, murderous villains! will you kill your brother?
Ne'er spurr'd their coursers at the trumpet's sound,
The worse to her, the better loved of me.
And found it was his brother, his elder brother.
coach-fellow Nym, or else you had looked through
The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death?
Pish for thee, Iceland dog! thou prick-ear'd cur of Iceland!
Dally not with the gods, but get thee gone.
You will not do't for all the world, I hope.
To cry amen to that, thus we appear.
To that owes it, namely this young prince:
harmless fairy, monster.
Besides, I'll make a present recompense.
I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him
should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in
I'll call them back again to comfort me:
PROSPERO and ARIEL remain invisible. Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, all wet
Ride more than thou goest,
Exit RODERIGO
ANTIPHOLUS
busy below, and so, I pray you, go, in God's name,
And try if they can gain your liberty.
Unblinding him
way.
This lout as he exceeds our lords, the odds
I know not what he shall. God send him well!
Signior Bassanio!
Born so, master.
The one as famous for a scolding tongue
Whose heart within his bosom is.
Exit
With such deep contempt made I him king for this?
By heaven, lady, you shall have no cause
were, durst not, look you, sir, show themselves, as
A sin prevailing much in youthful men,
If every of your wishes had a womb.
My favour here begins to warp. Not speak?
My lord, I love you,
Go back, I warrant thee, but I'll catch thine eyes,
Master Page is an honest man. Never a wife in
Hath clouded all thy happy days on earth:
I lay unto the grievous charge of others.
The mighty gods defend thee! Thy lover,
Lay hands on him, a dog!
Stand not amazed, here is no remedy:
Do, do: we steal by line and level, an't like your grace.
Myself to be a marvellous proper man.
Well, I conceive.
Will't not off?
I think your lordship is not ignorant
Myself condemned and myself excused.
There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest,
Exeunt
In more than this deed does require! And blessing
Give me my veil: come, throw it o'er my face.
How should he be made, then?
When they are fretten with the gusts of heaven,
too: we shall speak of you there.
Exeunt Bawd, Pandar, and BOULT
indeed more than I took her for.
As great as is thy master, greater, for
Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
At wakes and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs,
Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
Ha, ha!
fantasticoes, these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,
Reads
Between my father and my mother lay,
Dies
What, marry, may she! marry with a king,
Against the brows of this resisting town.
No, Master Brook, but the peaking Cornuto her
Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general,
have been sharp and sententious, pleasant without
By nature made for murders and for rapes.
But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
Forced me to seek delays for them and me.
Sir, believe this,
We are so virtuously bound--
In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man
O, come to me!
This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
Are you call'd forth from out a world of men
Come here for physic.
What bastard doth not? Who will go with me?
And that is my petition, noble lord:
If by me broke, what fool is not so wise
Able to bear against the great Aufidius
As much as I deserve! Why, that's the lady:
now than an eight-year-old horse. The tartness
And ditches grave you all!
There's scarce a bush.
Faith, sir, he did love her, but how?
play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
Madam, he's married to Octavia.
Ay, sir.
Of a full-charged confederacy, and give thanks
take an ill advantage of his assence: you are undone.
Look thou be true, do not give dalliance
Will you give me money, captain?
In delay there lies no plenty,
Were, on the quarry of these murder'd deer,
[Awaking]  And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake.
For, on their answer, will we set on them:
Exit
Excursions. Re-enter JOAN LA PUCELLE fighting hand  to hand with YORK. JOAN LA PUCELLE is taken. The French fly.
Either this is the envy in you, folly, or mistaking:
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
As now they are, and making practised smiles,
Villains!
youth in us, we are the sons of women, Master Page.
You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it
More out of malice than integrity,
Though twenty thousand worthier come to crave her.
Forbear your conference with the noble duke.
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber
Takes off his false beard
ACT III
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
Help me hence, ho!
Out upon you! what a man are you!
Lays down his mantle
What poor an instrument
What trumpet? look, Menelaus.
Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason,
Drawing him aside
He gave you all the duties of a man,
Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear,
Deliver'd strongly through my fixed teeth,
Sleeps
Not as a fee: grant me two things, I pray you,
SCENE IV. Before GLOUCESTER's castle. KENT in the stocks.
Jack Cade proclaims himself Lord Mortimer,
To the rest, and 'mongst lords I be thought a fool.
Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,
And stick them in our will. Sixth part of each?
That no king can corrupt.
Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:
Enter Messenger
Happily met, my lady and my wife!
Pulling SIMPLE out
Patience, Prince Saturninus.
But pearls are fair, and the old saying is,
Re-enter TYBALT
As well as we! ay, and better too, we offend worse.
[Aside to DOCTOR CAIUS]  Pray you, use your patience:
And his sandal shoon.
To KENT
with you, you shall have some part of your will: I
I am ashamed I did yield to them.
To blush and beautify the cheek again.
No, no, men living flatter those that die.
I do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not
Than any that draws breath in Italy.
Away, Patroclus!
Directitude! what's that?
You grave but reckless senators, have you thus
Only my blood speaks to you in my veins,
What promise, chuck?
And since this business so fair is done,
Some of these articles, and out they shall.
Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight.
How dare the plants look up to heaven, from whence
The offence is holy that she hath committed,
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
Why, that's all one.
The man that gave them thee. Thou art some fool,
If thou be as poor for a subject as he is for a
For a small vice.
Men prize the thing ungain'd more than it is:
Her father loved me, oft invited me,
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
'Tis done already, and the messenger gone.
Churl, upon thy eyes I throw
And left this head on. How should this be? Pisanio?
As certain as I know the sun is fire:
Lovers, make moan:
Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,
Enter CADE
I must die much your debtor.
ACT V
Sir, by your patience,
Hath full relation to the penalty,
me, that of this I may speak more. If our father
I beseech your honour, give me leave: a word, and
An armour, friends! I pray you, let me see it.
You cannot with such freedom purge yourself,
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
That's likewise part of my intelligence, but, I
You depend upon a noble gentleman, I must needs
She's far enough, and what he learns by this
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
Thou wondrous man.
It is the issue of Polixenes:
The fire that mounts the liquor til run o'er,
A vestal livery will I take me to,
God save you, sir!
Return to the tribunes.
O love, dispatch all business, and be gone!
for he is very slow-gaited. But I go.
he shall reign, but I'll be protector over him.
should purchase the day before for a little part,
Then vail your ignorance, if none, awake
The contrary doth make thee wonder'd at:
Marcus.' 'He killed my father.'
How now, sir! you villain!
Enter, at one door KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD,  GLOUCESTER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND, and other Lords,  at another, the FRENCH KING, QUEEN ISABEL, the  PRINCESS KATHARINE, ALICE and other Ladies, the DUKE of BURGUNDY, and his train
Biron, read it over.
As in a looking-glass, and then to sigh, as 'twere
Drives back our troops and conquers as she lists:
You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom
To prove him tyrant this reason may suffice,
But wherefore stay we? 'tis no time to talk.
Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven.
You came, I think, from France?
That prosperously I have attempted and
How comes it? do they grow rusty?
The word, 'Me pompae provexit apex.'
Whose sting is sharper than the sword's,
and I'll be merry in my revenge.
The 'solus' in thy most mervailous face,
Now follow, if thou darest, to try whose right,
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
In the county of Gloucester, justice of peace and
O my brother,
I'll make you amends next, to give you nothing for
The music, ho!
otherwise.
Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
For vainer hours and tutors not so careful.
If thou wilt condescend to be my--
Groping for trouts in a peculiar river.
As when thou grew'st thyself.
On some known ground of treachery in him?
Ay, Edward will use women honourably.
'O that these hands could so redeem my son,
Are there no other tokens
I think it well:
'E la mi,' show pity, or I die.'
And lies, and lies: there is my bond of faith,
neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention: I
Enter FALSTAFF, GADSHILL, BARDOLPH, and PETO, FRANCIS following with wine
To order peace between them, and omit
It pleased your majesty to turn your looks
And in my house you shall be friendly lodged:
Noble friends,
Insult without all reason, where gentry, title, wisdom,
And had intent to murder him,
For now we sit to chat as well as eat.
But when it first did help to wound itself.
As fitting best to quittance their deceit
And shall I fly? O if you love my mother,
How oft hast thou with perjury cleft the root!
Whilst yet with Parthian blood thy sword is warm,
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Have we ramm'd up our gates against the world.
Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she
Young Talbot's valour makes me smile at thee:
That in this desert inaccessible,
That we find out the cause of this effect,
I should have scratch'd out your unseeing eyes
O, make for Tarsus!
I think, than you make a woman: besides he brings
Enter certain Reapers, properly habited: they  join with the Nymphs in a graceful dance,  towards the end whereof PROSPERO starts  suddenly, and speaks, after which, to a  strange, hollow, and confused noise, they heavily vanish
And thereby hangs a tale.' When I did hear
thou art lovely. More fairer than fair, beautiful
We'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law,
and honourable personages than the commission of your
What shall I do?
How foolish do your fears seem now, Calpurnia!
Can set the duke up in despite of me.
Why, I was writing of my epitaph,
But I hear, no, they say my son of York
Thy noble deeds as valour's monuments.
That mount the Capitol, join gripes with hands
Methinks I should not thus be led along,
Were slily crept into his human powers
He bravely broach'd is boiling bloody breast,
And in such eyes as ours appear not faults,
'But for mine own part, my lord, I could be well
Stands on me to defend, not to debate.
Such creatures as men doubt, but do not stain
But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither
We were awaked, straightway, at liberty,
For wise men are grown foppish,
I' the last night's storm I such a fellow saw,
I am not barren to bring forth complaints
The under-hangman of his kingdom, and hated
Now, farewell, flattery: die, Andronicus,
This viperous slander enters. What cheer, madam?
plague upon Antenor! I would they had broke 's neck!
So many summers dry, scarce any joy
Song and dance
Why, this is kindly done.
with a curtsy.
With the rich worth of your virginity.
March on, and mark King Richard how he looks.
Let us all ring fancy's knell
Without more wider and more overt test
I'll humbly signify what in his name,
It cannot be, an if thou wert his mother.
Should be the father to so blest a son,
As war were hoodwink'd.
First, all you peers of Greece, go to my tent,
Ay, would they served us!
I will prove so, sir, to my power.
We are yours i' the garden: shall's attend you there?
Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills
At fortune's alms. You have obedience scanted,
Ah, Rome! Well, well, I made thee miserable
Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
The nobles in great earnestness are going
When I was born:
All will be ours, now bloody Talbot's slain.
What, art thou mad? art thou mad? is not the truth
On height of our displeasure: friend or brother,
As doth a raven on a sick-fall'n beast,
Are of two houses: lawful mercy
rascal hath removed my horse, and tied him I know
O the gods!
They come like sacrifices in their trim,
Go search like nobles, like noble subjects,
knaves in Kendal green came at my back and let drive
A woman, naturally born to fears,
No! why?  When he that is my husband now
That thou dost love my daughter from thy soul:
Enter a Nurse, with a blackamoor Child in her arms
They are all welcome.
Shall he dwindle, peak and pine:
As I am an honest man, I thought you had received
It may be judged I made the duke away,
Of these fair edifices 'fore my wars
If they do speak our language, 'tis our will:
If circumstances lead me, I will find
Enter ISABELLA
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
My lord, that, may be, hath endured a grief
RICHARD
Although before the solemn priest I have sworn,
What, dost thou turn away and hide thy face?
And like as rigor of tempestuous gusts
ANTIPHOLUS
Doubt not that, if money and the season can yield
COUNTESS
learning, gentleness, virtue, youth, liberality,
beard on his face: I had rather lie in the woollen.
Farewell, my lord: securely I espy
If thou be pleased with this my sudden choice,
If the scorn of your bright eyne
He's almost slain, and Roderigo dead.
No doubt well bring it to a happy issue.
Do not say so.
And revel in Lavinia's treasury.
Enter Apothecary
I'll put myself in poor and mean attire
Sees and knows more, much more, than he unfolds.
An if he will come to me.
Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia,
My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle!
But welcome, sweet Clarence, my daughter shall be thine.
'school,' 'fool,' a babbling rhyme, very ominous
Stanley, I prithee, go, and take me hence,
Regard me as I do not flatter, and
And I with him, and many moe with me,
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane,
Methought a serpent eat my heart away,
Who talks within there? ho, open the door!
Though daintily brought up, with patience more
The gods revenge it upon me and mine,
with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered
Give me mine own again, 'twere no good part
'twas not so, but, indeed, God forbid it should be
Wherefore should you so?
That gives me this bold show of courtesy.
He is a man, I'll love him as my brother:
To let the troop pass fairly, or I'll find
I would, false murderous coward, on thy knee
Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine.
As bondage e'er of freedom: here's my hand.
Upon their first lord's neck. But tell me true--
Fulvia is dead.
The sun is in the heaven, and the proud day,
And, of so great a favour growing proud,
The ground's the lowest, and we are half way there.
peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of
Of all professors else, make proselytes
As the weird women promised, and, I fear,
Sirrah, if they meet not with Saint Nicholas'
The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons.
More hath it merited, that let it have.
But there was such laughing! Queen Hecuba laughed
And utters it again when God doth please:
mirror up to nature, to show virtue her own feature,
In the sweet pangs of it remember me,
It is decreed Hector the great must die.
Doth lesser blench at sufferance than I do.
And waste the time, which looks for other revels.
On unreprievable condemned blood.
SCENE IV. Before the walls of Athens.
Should rob my bed-mate of my company.
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
it provokes the desire, but it takes
But little thinks we shall be of her council:
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye:
A couching lion and a ramping cat,
Why?
Happier the man, whom favourable stars
Hath caused to belch up you, and on this island
If, as his nature is, he fall in rage
Half-blooded fellow, yes.
What minstrelsy, and pretty din,
Humphrey of Gloucester? If thou canst accuse,
Courage and comfort! all shall yet go well.
Yet hasty marriage seldom proveth well.
A strange invisible perfume hits the sense
answer: thither with all greediness of affection
I cannot give you less.
For I am almost ready to dissolve,
I'll ever serve his mind with my best will,
I dare do all that may become a man,
again: but, as they say to hear music the general
Even to the opposed end of our intents:
battery. He sits in his state, as a thing made for
enough to speak, but to speak true.
O, call back yesterday, bid time return,
serve God, if the devil bid you. Because we come to
ask thee what's their offence, sixth and lastly, why
Clock heard
Exeunt CARDINAL WOLSEY and his Train
That in their kind they speak it: only sin
I ken the wight: he is of substance good.
Nor never needed that I should entreat,
Into this city's bosom.
To him that, for your honour and your state,
Exeunt FERDINAND, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN
Silvius, the time was that I hated thee,
board a dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live
Enter, on one side, DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before, on the other, ELBOW, and Officers with POMPEY
In riddles and affairs of death,
And these same crosses spoil me. Who are you?
Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought
Before you punish him, where he heard this,
'Tis best thou diest quickly.
Falls shrewdly to the purpose.
Attend him here this morning.
The horn and noise o' the monster's, wants not spirit
Lest that the infection of his fortune take
What's past and what's to come is strew'd with husks
And pay no worship to the garish sun.
And flies fled under shade, why, then the thing of courage
Why, say, fair queen, whence springs this deep despair?
Now begin,
Which with usurping steps do trample thee:
Let me be thought too busy in my fears--
Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.
Who is thy lord?
I pray you, deliver him this petition,
shouldst feel
I know your master's pleasure and he mine:
But more in Troilus thousand fold I see
Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
I will to Venice, Sunday comes apace:
If He, which is the top of judgment, should
Of drops that sacred pity hath engender'd:
Nor more can you distinguish of a man
By the yea and no, I think the 'oman is a witch
if she be mated with an equal husband?
Into the chantry by: there, before him,
Was that mine?
Exeunt
ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest
And how shall we continue Claudio,
William, sir.
to undo Hero and kill Leonato. Look you for any
Alarum. Retreat. Enter OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, MESSALA, LUCILIUS, and the army
What cause withholds you then, to mourn for him?
Turn him to any cause of policy,
affection in, it runs out.
Pardon me, Caesar, for my dear dear love
Drum and colours. Enter MALCOLM, SIWARD, MACDUFF, and their Army, with boughs
I will tell you.
Whether you will or no.
Why then, my love adieu!
O, here's Servilius, now we shall know some answer.
Come, soldiers, show what cruelty ye can,
Exit EMILIA
No, believe me.
Enter PANDARUS
daughters will be all gentlemen born.
down, an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty such
For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise
Trebonius doth desire you to o'erread,
I'll weringly to him: to gain his colour
I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.
And without trial fell, God's peace be with him!
Over my thigh, and sigh'd, and kiss'd, and then
But rather to beget more love in you:
Would I had done't
Enter Clown
To find another that is like to thee,
gives her folly motion and advantage: and now she's
of me? shall I not take mine case in mine inn but I
wear his sting? In his tail.
I think it best you married with the county.
So much as lank'd not.
Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts
How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
Read the will, we'll hear it, Antony,
The fairest hand I ever touch'd! O beauty,
Sirrah, give place.
him: discuss the same in French unto him.
How goes the field?
But know I think and think I know most sure
Is now again thwarting the wayward seas,
Indeed, good lady,
He was expected then,
A Marshalsea shall hold ye play these two months.
I am fall'n indeed.
I see thy glory like a shooting star
Enter PISANIO and IMOGEN
First tried our soldiership! He did look far
Towards York shall bend you with your dearest speed,
I am much bound to you.
Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms.
when I left him.
My gracious lord, that which I would discover
That we for thee may glorify the Lord.
Whose father then, as men report
Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong.
Take heed you fall not.
And from your sacred vials pour your graces
him as this of Kent's banishment.
Sir, it was I.
hope neither.
That Mowbray hath received eight thousand nobles
And all their minds transfigured so together,
Or have we eaten on the insane root
Exeunt
France is a stable, we that dwell in't jades,
Noble Marcius!
Young Romeo is it?
When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding:
SCENE II. A camp near Forres.
With leave, Bassanio: I am half yourself,
Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
Dost grant me, hedgehog? then, God grant me too
Alarum. Exeunt
O traitors and bawds, how earnestly are you set
You got it from her: she call'd the saints to surety
At three and two years old, I stole these babes,
But O, thy wife!
I did not kill your husband.
And grew a twenty years removed thing
not with love: prove that ever I lose more blood
And issue forth and bid them battle straight.
As I do pray the gods.
Such have but a shadow's bliss:
Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
Peace, wilful boy, or I will charm your tongue.
Why is my lord enraged against his love?
Which, slanderer, he imitation calls,
Exit FALSTAFF
'Tis but a peevish boy, yet he talks well,
you stand on distance, your passes, stoccadoes, and
And hath preferr'd thee, if it be preferment
Was made much poorer by it: but your son,
fellows are perfect in the great commanders' names:
It cannot be.
Their course of love, the tidings of her death:
Hast thou delight to see a wretched man
When for so slight and frivolous a cause
On him, on you, who not? I will maintain
When, for some trifling present, you have bid me
Come, tell me whose it was.
And at first meeting loved,
Be patient, they are friends, Ratcliff and Lovel.
Beg at the gates, like Tarquin and his queen.
need no more weight than mine own bowels. I have
If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!
What is the matter
Out, out, Lucetta! that would be ill-favour'd.
To save at least the heir of Edward's right:
And living too, for now his son is duke.
I warrant him consul.
so plentiful an excrement?
We say befits the hour.
So hated, and so banish'd: but he has a merit,
Will not bear question, either say thou'lt do 't,
Cressida's?
Your hopes and friends are infinite.
For so your doctors hold it very meet,
Is the determined respite of my wrongs:
Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?
Look, how he laughs already!
you to this?
For raising this sea-storm?
That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her
And Phoebus 'gins arise,
Where's Richard gone?
'Tis to his virtue a just equinox,
What if it should be so?
With burial amongst their ancestors:
Ay, on the front.
bull! now, dog! 'Loo, Paris, 'loo! now my double-
What a fool is she, that knows I am a maid,
tempted, and he had an excellent strength, yet was
Whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep,
O, well begg'd!
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
Would poison were obedient and knew my mind!
Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
My father Glendower is not ready yet,
If law, authority and power deny not,
That seeming to be most which we indeed least are.
were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear!
carries his house on his head, a better jointure,
Of hope, not longing, mine Italian brain
To give my tongue that heat to ask your help,
I would you rather had been silent. Please you
Not yet thou knowest me, and, seeing me, dost not
Enter to them another Messenger
Not as protector, steward, substitute,
And unrespective boys: none are for me
go to, no more, lest it be rather thought you affect
That Suffolk doth not flatter, face, or feign.
And that unhappy king, my master, whom
A light for Monsieur Judas! it grows dark, he may stumble.
Exit
barren rascal: I saw him put down the other day
[Aside]  Well, I perceive
Are all these things perceived in me?
Agamemnon!
But let her live.
Now let thy friendly hand
bastard children than war's a destroyer of men.
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
With all our harts.
'Whatsoever you may hear to the contrary, let
Fold down the leaf where I have left: to bed:
That man of hers, Pisanio, her old servant,
the same kind! This would make mercy swear and play
bountiful gentleman: but thou art wise, and thou
And with thy lips keep in my soul awhile!
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap:
Give the word, ho! and stand.
I dedicate myself to your sweet pleasure,
Sweet lady, let me rake it from the earth.
Yonder is a most reverend gentleman, who, belike
Mean time let this defend my loyalty,
In sooth, I would you were a little sick,
I would not wish them to a fairer death:
The blood and courage that renowned them
Give me your hand,
To God, the widow's champion and defence.
And now excess of it will make me surfeit.
That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand,
With senators on the bench: this is it
Call up her father,
Traitors ensteep'd to clog the guiltless keel,--
I had your heart before, this follows it.
Beyond all man's endeavours: my endeavours
A noise of hunters heard. Enter divers Spirits,  in shape of dogs and hounds, and hunt them about, PROSPERO and ARIEL setting them on
O Gertrude, come away!
And cuts me from the best of all my land
With scarfs and fans and double change of bravery,
I do not, sir.
above deck.
mightily grace himself on thee, he will practise
No, to White-Friars, there attend my coining.
For they have fought for Rome, and all in vain,
To thee, King John, my holy errand is.
have strong arms too.
Making them proud of his humility,
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
And you are stay'd for. There, my blessing with thee!
The silver livery of advised age,
I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn'd,
But there's more in me than thou understand'st.
Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since,
The most infectious pestilence upon thee!
keep my sides to myself, my shoulders for the fellow
And you tell me that he shall die for it.
O, if you raise this house against this house,
When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear.
Suffer love! a good epithet! I do suffer love
See when and where she died.
Stabs him
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Being done, there is no pause.
Hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe.
Whose father slew my father, he shall die.
Ah, let me live in prison all my days,
See'st thou this object, Kent?
A name that in my thoughts becomes me best,
into a notable contempt. If you will see it, follow
nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself.
Therefore, since law itself is perfect wrong,
Exit
Were there no more but it.
Exeunt some Attendants
Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going,
Has crept too near his conscience.
From general excrement: each thing's a thief:
I have heard the Frenchman hath good skill in
Which then he wore, the snatches in his voice,
And we must take the current when it serves,
Is the fool sick?
What, for being a puritan? thy exquisite reason,
And with their faint reply this answer join,
Go, Salisbury, and tell them all from me.
And frown upon 's.
tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks his
I am not prone to weeping, as our sex
Told me, the king, provoked by the queen,
At Buckingham and all the crew of them,
Nay, we must longer kneel: I am a suitor.
I speak in respect--
Oft have I heard of sanctuary men,
Our reasons are so full of good regard
Madam, the same, your servant.
This fellow pecks up wit as pigeons pease,
Welcome hither:
May draw with you: there's millions now alive
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more,
Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse
Satisfy me so.
O Warwick, Warwick! I foresee with grief
And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.
things that are hollow: thy bones are hollow,
To shallow rivers, to whose falls-
In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I
Who's that? a Frenchman?
If I do not put on a sober habit,
So great as our dread father in a scale
SCENE II. A room of state in the same.
Were there surprised and taken prisoners.
Stronger than ever law could make: this secret
Tune my distresses and record my woes.
I have seduced a headstrong Kentishman,
That's not an office for a friend, my lord.
Many, nay, almost any.
And yet your beards forbid me to interpret
That hath received an alms! I will not do't,
I would to heaven I had your potency,
And wherefore I am fled, write to the king
When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down,
Fillet of a fenny snake,
off, I would prick your guts a little, in good
The present consul, and last general
Ay, so I thought. How many, as you guess?
Double six thousand, and then treble that,
Madam, this glove.
And if mine arm be heaved in the air,
You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
Here, madam, at your service.
We saw him at the opening of his tent:
And teaches me to kill or hang myself:
In our condition.
O, 'tis treason!
Out of all eyes, tongues, minds and injuries.
Met I my father with his bleeding rings,
me to stay with the Jew. The fiend gives the more
Deny their office: only you do lack
Exit
The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady,
My lord, will't please you to fall to?
And rather muse than ask why I entreat you,
Froissart, a countryman of ours, records,
Ay, if I ever saw him before and knew him.
We thank you, lords. But I am not your king
thy praise.
The heavens so dim by day. A savage clamour!
I have told my lord of you, he is coming down to you.
To the pot, I warrant him.
Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my
Be full expired. Thanks, uncle Winchester,
Would be interpreted a thing perplex'd
Enter EGLAMOUR
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
There, where we see the lights.
Had I brought hither a corrupted mind,
Ah, tutor, look where bloody Clifford comes!
Base is the slave that pays.
And ask'd thee mercy for't.
So am I given in charge, may't please your grace.
They smack of honour both. Go get him surgeons.
Two of the sweet'st companions in the world.
malice in my breath. Meeting two such wealsmen as
To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight:
Me, as his abject object: at this instant
the Count Claudio alone: tell them that you know
DON
Re-enter Servant, with wine
O brother, speak with possibilities,
Lay out, lay out.
As you think meet. Most wretched queen!
To bring this tidings to the bloody king.
Exeunt carriers
hurt not. My lord, for your many courtesies I thank
And pill by law. Maid, to thy master's bed,
Take up this mangled matter at the best:
Full of warm blood, of mirth, of gossiping.
if thou beest a devil, take't as thou list.
Of beauty's tutors have enrich'd you with?
May now perchance both quake and tremble here,
Seducing so my friends, and, to this end,
our pikes, ere we become rakes: for the gods know I
Have lost the wager. Boldness be my friend!
seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue
O, let us have him, for his silver hairs
And crown you king of this day's happiness.
heard that men of few words are the best men, and
To wear an undeserved dignity.
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, a Captain, and others
That's to 't indeed, sir: marry, sir, at the request
Than to be pitied of thee. Prithee, bring me
Jaques Chatillon, Rambures, Vaudemont,
For certain sums of gold, which you denied me:
all the world to be cowards, for I, that never
Two equal men. The queen shall be acquainted
These English woes will make me smile in France.
Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look,
upon him, sir, a strange picklock, which we have
And with a virtuous vizard hide foul guile!
men.
Then thus: of many good I think him best.
my l'envoy.
But how, if that fly had a father and mother?
That makes thee strangle thy propriety:
your breeding.
Reads
The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:
Can any face of brass hold longer out?
Sir, she came in great with child, and longing,
Exeunt, with a dead march
A care-crazed mother of a many children,
And here I take the unfeigned oath,
[To Lords without]  Let none disturb us.--Why should
For if the trial of the law o'ertake ye,
Sir, I shall study deserving.
Talk you of killing?
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
Verily, I speak it in the freedom of my knowledge:
Bear the great sway of his affairs with reasons,
Which now the house of Lancaster usurps,
That, hearing of her beauty and her wit,
Word of denial: froth and scum, thou liest!
No, faith, is't not, Kate: but thy speaking of my
Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen, indeed, of all.
A testament of noble-ending love.
What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland?
The Windsor bell hath struck twelve, the minute
How not your own desire?
Have you a father?
Placing therein some expert officers,
By custom and the ordinance of times
Are all call'd neat.--Still virginalling
Ha, ha, ha!
And now, instead of mounting barded steeds
No, not take interest, not, as you would say,
'Tis conceived to scope.
Right worthy you priority.
In common worldly things, 'tis call'd ungrateful,
I never saw but Humphrey Duke of Gloucester
I' the east my pleasure lies.
voice on you: you must therefore be content to
Madam, be still, with reverence may I say,
What said the wench when he rose again?
Something in my behalf.
I'll make thee eat iron like an ostrich, and swallow
They that my trust must grow to, live not here:
Be secret-false: what need she be acquainted?
Or from the all that are took something good,
Here they're but felt, and seen with mischief's eyes,
How now, philosopher!
He hath songs for man or woman, of all sizes, no
It must not be, there is no power in Venice
Cancel his bond of life, dear God, I prey,
Titus, thou shalt obtain and ask the empery.
Into whose hand I give thy life.
Comfort's in heaven, and we are on the earth,
Mine enemy has more power.
Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax.
Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this
Thou concludest like the sanctimonious pirate, that
Grace go with you, sir!
So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other,
Enter Chamberlain
'Tis well that thou hast cause
But then renew I could not, like the moon,
But doubt discovery there. Will you grant with me
prince. Instinct is a great matter, I was now a
Poor queen! how love to me and to her son
I pray you, pass with your best violence,
Give me leave, Caesar,--
Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
Vouchsafe to those that have not read the story,
That goes not out to prey. Now, as fond fathers,
With him my son, Lord John of Lancaster,
Our title to the crown and only claim
Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power
No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway,
The fellow is distract, and so am I,
love. Read thou this challenge, mark but the
Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,
Now to 'scape the serpent's tongue,
If virtue's gloss will stain with any soil,
Enter MACMORRIS and Captain JAMY
That we with smoking swords may march from hence,
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
We'll follow Cade, we'll follow Cade!
cry  'hem!' and bid you play it off. To conclude, I
A plague-sore, an embossed carbuncle,
knock, knock! Who's there? Faith, here's an
Exeunt, marching
Two curs shall tame each other: pride alone
Ay, I do.
Not minding whether I dislike or no!
Exeunt MARK ANTONY and CLEOPATRA with their train
Fly off our loves again!
I am not Barbason, you cannot conjure me. I have an
The father, all whose joy is nothing else
Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand:
For all this spice of your hypocrisy:
society,--which in the boorish is company,--of this
which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
ANTIPHOLUS
The treasure of her honour. No more. To what end?
Yet their own authors faithfully affirm
Flourish. Exeunt
We hope to make the sender blush at it.
I thank you: I am not of many words, but I thank
Sirrah, call in my sons to be my bail,
Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn
The which when any shall not gratify,
You know I gave it you half an hour since.
Did not her kitchen-maid rail, taunt, and scorn me?
Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies,
Enrich the time to come with smooth-faced peace,
He be convented. He's a rank weed, Sir Thomas,
The duke, my husband and my children both,
man so bad as is thyself.
Would not infect his reason?
'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
a man. For Bardolph, he is white-livered and
Enter the KING HENRY VIII and DOCTOR BUTTS at a window above
When presently through all thy veins shall run
I may not, madam:
He gave his nose and took't away again,
But who comes with our brother Marcus here?
Something of moment then: I will go meet him:
Bring me a constant woman to her husband,
I died for hope ere I could lend thee aid:
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her,
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
Now, by my faith, lords, 'twas a glorious day:
Chosen Andronicus, surnamed Pius
Which now mistrust no parcel of my fear,
beat not the bones of the buried: when he breathed,
Is not a dukedom, sir, a goodly gift?
As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war:
Father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
And all those sayings will I overswear,
'Faith, half asleep.
[Aside]  Perish, base prince, ignoble Duke of York!
Upon the pashed corses of the kings
were, so fit.
Peace then! no words.
As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her,
bear, yet he is oft led by the nose with gold: show
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
What you would work me to, I have some aim:
Certainly, sir, I can.
For I myself at this time have employ'd him.
To pay this debt of love but to a brother,
I speak too long, but 'tis to peize the time,
O'erborne their way, consumed with fire, and took
Re-enter Servingman
Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,
Than thou the shadow of succession,
Get you hence, for I must go
I am mightily abused. I should e'en die with pity,
talk we of these traitorly rascals, whose miseries
Come, go along, and see the truth hereof,
Thou rascal, that art worst in blood to run,
will not tell myself, and yet 'tis a milkmaid, yet
To show Lord Timon that mean eyes have seen
of all our cavaliers, and make our swearers priests.
Enter BOYET
Thus stands my state, 'twixt Cade and York distress'd.
I departed not and left him there.
As therefore kept to do so.
Knight of the Burning Lamp.
Until I see the ring.
Close by, my master.
I now am full resolved to take a wife
What you would ask me, that I should deny,
Embracing him
According to their firm proposed natures.
For our bad neighbour makes us early stirrers,
and lie under Mount Pelion. Well, I will find you
The eye wink at the hand, yet let that be,
Re-enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
Wilt thou serve me? for since patiently and
This royal throne of kings, this scepter'd isle,
Love me or love me not, I like the cap,
I had a brother, then. Heaven keep your honour!
gap in your own honour, and shake in pieces the
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees,
And say to all the world 'This was a man!'
Catesby!
It shall be so, and at the other hill
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
You look but on a stool.
Caesar hath hang'd him. Canidius and the rest
Mark the encounter: if he love her not
The plebeians have got your fellow-tribune
Ring, bells, aloud, burn, bonfires, clear and bright,
Witches vanish
Why was my Cressid then so hard to win?
Alive again? then show me where he is:
And prays you to believe him.
How! dare not! do not. Do you know, and dare not?
Such aid as I can spare you shall command,
conscience, sir, I do not care for you: if that be
God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the
So much, dear liege, I have already sworn,
An emperor in Rome thus overborne,
Ay, forsooth.
you please, that I can do strange things: I have,
Nay, good my lord, for mine ease, in good faith.
Last, and as much containing as all these,
My uncle's will in this respect is mine:
A pound of flesh, to be by him cut off
Complotted and contrived in this land
The powers that he already hath in Gallia
For yet I am not look'd on in the world.
Who 'twas that cut thy tongue and ravish'd thee.
Though I lost twenty lives.--Help! help, ho! help!
No marvel, my lord, though it affrighted you,
Besides, she did intend confession
It did not lie there when I went to bed.
Taste, touch and smell, pleased from thy tale rise,
Yea, yea, my lord: I'll yield him thee asleep,
How poor are they that have not patience!
Farewell, you're angry.
A troop of horse with felt: I'll put 't in proof,
'Tis his aspect of terror. All's not well.
Or else for ever be confixed here,
Sir Robert's son! Ay, thou unreverend boy,
And that were much he should, for he is given
Do you your office, or give up your place,
And since her time are colliers counted bright.
A federary with her, and one that knows
her, not bedded her, and sworn to make the 'not'
Yes, Jack, upon instinct.
Good my friends,
He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father,
SCENE XV. The same. A monument.
It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
Have by their brave instruction got upon me
Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death,
we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship
With distinct breath and consign'd kisses to them,
By both your wills.
[Aside]  Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have
And I confess besides I am no maid:
Feign'd Fortune to be throned: the base o' the mount
reason: thou seest I am pacified still. Nay,
I will cut thy throat, one time or other, in fair
Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
A moderate table.
And what confederacy have you with the traitors
She's an adulteress.
York doth present himself unto your highness.
His purse is empty already, all's golden words are spent.
That, if it chance the one of us do fail,
Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine.
My lord protector, so it please your grace,
My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry,
Did I the tired Caesar. And this man
Methought he was a brother to your daughter:
Of your own cause. Is this the witness, friar?
'Tis destiny unshunnable, like death:
I know this cannot be.
But immortality attends the former.
'Tis well consented: presently away,
Each part, deprived of supple government,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Hang ye, gorbellied knaves, are ye undone? No, ye
Know of your youth, examine well your blood,
above your eye?
Had he his hurts before?
Dat is good, by gar, with all my heart!
As you shall deem yourself lodged in my heart,
And with loud 'larums welcome them to Rome.
mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful,
O Proteus, let this habit make thee blush!
Being wronged as we are by this peevish town,
Where is he?
Enter OBERON and squeezes the flower on TITANIA's eyelids
Inform on that.
[Reads]  'The sleeves curiously cut.'
Trumpets sound
O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet!
And we must yearn therefore.
ANTIPHOLUS
Painting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery, and
The queen, and princess.
To call his fortunes thine.
A good demand.
You have received many wounds for your country.
Deals with our cardinal, and, as I trow,--
The sides o' the world may danger: much is breeding,
If you bethink yourself of any crime
Briefly, sir.
I hold it ever,
Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar,
And shall my youth be guilty of such blame?
Took some displeasure at him, at least he judged so:
A passion hateful to my purposes,
I know thee well, thou hast obtain'd thy suit:
ACT IV
Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent
You, Roderigo! come, sir, I am for you.
To prove it on thee to the extremest point
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage,
The other four in wondrous motion.
Nor more nor clipp'd, but so.
in the letter. 'Cast thy humble slough,' says she,
Adoptedly, as school-maids change their names
Exeunt BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
That I myself was to myself not mine,
What compass will you wear your farthingale?'
To have free speech with you, and it concerns me
A novice of this place and the fair sister
On, officer, to prison till it come.
If either of you know any inward impediment why you
Cut both the villains' throats, for die you shall:
Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
Give your worship good morrow.
SCENE III. A churchyard, in it a tomb belonging to the Capulets.
To death with mortal joy.
Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
O, good sir, tenderly, O!
We shall to London get, where you are loved
My husband, then?
What, out of hearing? gone? no sound, no word?
Buy lads, or else your lasses cry: Come buy.
Still a-repairing, ever out of frame,
And he shall wear his crown by sea and land,
And with a puissant and a mighty power
Why, now I see there's mettle in thee, and even from
That I did never, no, nor never can,
True, madam: and, to comfort you with chance,
This is the prison. What is he lies here?
Exit
Who, stuck and spangled with your flatteries,
The winds were love-sick with them, the oars were silver,
In the election of a sir so rare,
Sir Valentine and servant, to you two thousand.
they laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in
With many legions of strange fantasies,
Exit
I know, in honour, O, that ever I
How now, my sweet creature of bombast!
But only she, and she deserves a lord
If not by war, by surfeit die your king,
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS QUICKLY, and WILLIAM PAGE
A cry within 'A sail, a sail, a sail!'
Have sold their lives unto the house of York,
Of all the learned and authentic fellows,--
Live here in heaven and may look on her,
What sayest thou, bully Bottom?
Enter an Attendant
It is marring indeed, if he quarter it.
Whispers with BLANCH
The king by this is set him down to sleep.
The villain is o'er-raught of all my money.
The heart of Antony, Octavia is
The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame.
To match thy goodness? My life will be too short,
majesty, and your great-uncle Edward the Plack
And stolen my love's heart from him?
Welcome, Mercade,
As green as Ajax' and your brain so temper'd,
I should do thus.
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh,
Good queen, let us entreat you.
Freedom lives hence, and banishment is here.
ANTIPHOLUS
They fight and YOUNG SIWARD is slain
Tut, fear not me.
See this dispatch'd with all the haste thou canst:
me turn i' the wheel.
The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Or Cassio him, or each do kill the other,
He's a god or a painter, for he makes faces.
And piteous plainings of the pretty babes,
And here, with all good will, with all my heart,
Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law:
This is the way to kindle, not to quench.
Why, foolish boy, the king is left behind,
there to-morrow, there is a great coil to-night.
lying! I grant you I was down and out of breath,
No court, no father, nor no more ado
That gave thee life, when well he might have
The shrine of Venus, or straight-pight Minerva.
Urged on the examinations, proofs, confessions
The king himself, who, Douglas, grieves at heart
And let it not displease thee, good Bianca,
Exeunt TITUS, MARCUS, and LAVINIA
Upon his peril, that I have reserved
A son who is the theme of honour's tongue,
But value dwells not in particular will,
whole realms on fire: Of such a nature is his
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and three or four with tapers
we some strange Indian with the great tool come to
I see them now, then was a blessed time.
How long is that since?
And when she put it on, she made me vow
And we of thee: so if the time thrust forth
Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them
excellent wit? can virtue hide itself? Go to,
And can say nothing, no, not for a king,
What shall he have that kill'd the deer?
But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven.
Thou with an eagle art inspired then.
Withdraw, my lord, I'll help you to a horse.
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
Methinks a father
And very welcome. Look, signior, here's your sister.
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate
Sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields!
of honour, so belike is that.
Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind,
I have seen nothing.
Nothing but 'Mortimer,' and give it him
Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires,
Decius, well urged: I think it is not meet,
and have a desire, as my father shall specify--
Is made my gaoler to attend on me.
Distract your army, which doth most consist
thy honour
Yea, are you so brief?
Let him shun castles,
Ha! known!
Re-enter Iago
Mark how the blood of Caesar follow'd it,
To know the reason of this strange restraint.
O Sisters Three,
Life and these lips have long been separated:
parish up again. But if the good King Simonides
Mingled his royalty with capering fools,
That Geffrey was thy elder brother born,
Drops bloody sweat from his war-wearied limbs,
him.
His friends still wrought reprieves for him: and,
Dives that lived in purple, for there he is in his
The Song
Rich pearls upon thee.
Dies
From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate
Presence majestical would put him out,
'Tis very true: you were in presence then,
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:
Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts,
Enter GLOUCESTER
Abate thy rage, abate thy manly rage,
The idea of her life shall sweetly creep
Where we may take him and disgrace him for it.
broached, and beard thee too. Look on me well: I
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye
The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
Enough, I am engaged, I will challenge him. I will
Tut! our horses they shall not see: I'll tie them
And critic Timon laugh at idle toys!
And I say the earth was not of my mind,
Gods and goddesses,
And Romeo dead, and Juliet, dead before,
But when they seldom come, they wish'd for come,
Till you conclude that he upon whose side
And the huge army of the world's desires,--
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
Of all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the four.
What hath quench'd them hath given me fire.
With a proud heart he wore his humble weeds.
husband? I love him well, he is an honest man.
Ere the ninth hour, I drunk him to his bed,
Who does beguile you? who does do you wrong?
Whose breath, indeed, these hands have newly stopp'd:
Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own,
A joyful mother of two goodly sons,
I would be friends with you and have your love,
As you love strokes, so jest with me again.
Bear with me cousin, for I was amazed
Tell them your feats, whilst they with joyful tears
For the supply and profit of our hope,
If, Tullus,
And this you might have heard of here, by me,
Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere
SCENE VI. The English camp in Picardy.
Of many weary miles you have o'ergone,
For I can here disarm thee with this stick
Know of your love?
That Lepidus of the triumvirate
Provided that, when he's removed, your highness
I could marry this wench for this device.
To CATESBY
me faith, say I. Well, it's all one.
Long live Lord Titus, my beloved brother,
Past and to come, that you do change this purpose,
O, that a mighty man of such descent,
Confederate in the fact: ay, more there was,
Well said.
To see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans.
He might return to vasty Tartar back,
Say that I did all this for love of her.
Gentlemen and friends, I thank you for your pains:
To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken:
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
No mournful bell shall ring her burial,
Enshrines thee in his heart and there erects
Exit CICERO
I beseech you, punish me not with your hard
We will go walk a little in the orchard,
This is not strong enough to be believed
There lay he, stretched along, like a wounded knight.
Ay, that's the first thing that we have to do,
And all the budding honours on thy crest
To make a loathsome abject scorn of me:
on't: before Corioli he scotched him and notched
he'll be made an example.
Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
That you would have me seek into myself
Levied an army, weening to redeem
But just a pound of flesh: if thou cut'st more
me in manners the rather to express myself. You
By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand'st,
Some slain before, some dying, some their friends
My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
To make me fight at land!
In God's name and the king's, say who thou art
Cannot make boast to have that which he hath,
Are tricks of custom, but in a man that's just
Whither?
There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats,
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
And I, as I love Hastings with my heart!
And hither hale that misbelieving Moor,
He cried upon it at the merest loss
Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
have threaten'd
The allusion holds in the exchange.
Hath much deform'd us, fashioning our humours
Accompanied but with a barbarous Moor,
drink it? wherein neat and cleanly, but to carve a
At Ravenspurgh.
You shall not need, my fellow peers of Tyre,
Hark! you are call'd: some say the Genius so
Approve their truths by Troilus: when their rhymes,
When you are by at night. I do beseech you--
We have descried, upon our neighbouring shore,
To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter,
Of an inestimable value, and his daughter with him,
Enter PAROLLES guarded, and First Soldier
With blood and sword and fire to win your right,
not here thy gait.'
Exeunt MARK ANTONY and EUPHRONIUS
When all that is within him does condemn
Of any promise that hath pass'd from him.
Or how haps it I seek not to advance
Only I yield to die:
Is only my obedience. What can happen
Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love,
And for the proffer of my lord your master,
That memory, the warder of the brain,
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
not my sword, but take my pistol, if thou wilt.
If thou vouchsafe them. But if not, then know
First, Marcus Brutus, will I shake with you,
wailing, my sister crying, our maid howling, our cat
Cousin, thou wert not wont to be so dull:
No, indeed, my lord.
Which is he?
Nor was not to be equall'd,'--thus your verse
I have loved her ever since I saw her, and still I
that he was, and that the king was an usurper.
Am I to fear, or none.
And is it true that I must go from Troy?
To flatter Caesar, would you mingle eyes
Ye lie, hostess: Bardolph was shaved and lost many
honour! You will not do it, you!
Come, Antony, away!
'Tis more by fortune, lady, than by merit.
You pluck a thousand dangers on your head,
As he's reported by this gentleman,
Exeunt Young LUCIUS, and Attendant
Of outward order: this we came not to,
But did you not request to have it cut?
Richard Earl of Cambridge.
Why, then, how stands the matter with them?
Farewell.
How earnestly they knock! Pray you, come in:
swearing rascals, that stale old mouse-eaten dry
Please you, retire to your chamber.
How will she love, when the rich golden shaft
Be moderate, be moderate.
elder than this, who yet is no dearer in my account:
Seeming and savour all the winter long:
Ere the first sacrifice, within this hour,
eyes, and then they will endure handling, which
The purity of his.
If he were dead, you'ld weep for
But tell me then, 'tis so, for, look thy cheeks
Here they fight, and JOAN LA PUCELLE overcomes
Whither so late?
If I sent him word again 'it was not well cut,' he
Messala, I have here received letters,
grandfather's.
Paris, Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.
Exeunt other Servants
My wife to France: from whence, set forth in pomp,
As good!
Bind fast his corky arms.
The QUEEN drops the box: PISANIO takes it up
Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts:
Ye speak like honest men, pray God, ye prove so!
For, I presume, brave Hector would not lose
If their purgation did consist in words,
I care not if I have: it is my study
There was a lady once, 'tis an old story,
Come, let's away, the strangers all are gone.
Let me thy servant and not sovereign be:
And do upon mine altar sacrifice.
gentlewoman about me, and I know, Kate, you will to
Re-enter three Citizens more
And why dost thou deny the bag of gold?
Here's eight that must take hands
Sleep his seat on thy eyelid:
'Tis she is sub-contracted to this lord,
That winter should cut off our spring-time so.
Visit by night your lady's chamber-window
You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so,
and the bear mocked him, both roaring louder than
I throw my warlike shield. Lay on, Macduff,
Sir, you have shown to-day your valiant strain,
it, spend it, spend more, spend all I have, only
May all the building in my fancy pluck
If you do find him, pray you, give him this,
We are tougher, brother,
7. SUFFOLK, in his robe of estate, his coronet
I warrant you sir,
DON
Believe false teachers: though those that
down, obey him: quickly, dispatch.
Have not the grace to grace it with such show.
A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
If not to fight with foreign enemies,
Be so perfidious!--he whom next thyself
And yet not ours. Come, let me taste my horse,
A stranger, no offender, and inform him
All several sins, all used in each degree,
Been well inform'd of them, and with such cautions,
Much business appertaining.
Full well shalt thou perceive how much I dare.
Not that I know.
An't please your honour, players
Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
in simple time, I cannot: but I love thee, none
the duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek,
Some necessaries that I needs must use,
For many carriages he hath dispatch'd
And in the very pangs of death he cried,
That won you without blows! Despising,
To yield the ghost: but still the envious flood
When blows have made me stay, I fled from words.
amends is but patched with virtue. If that this
his great right to be so: Gerard de Narbon.
As faithfully as I deny the devil.
My master's mind.
Strong both against the deed, then, as his host,
Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm
coming a-night to Jane Smile, and I remember the
I'll be damned for never a king's son in
this civil buffeting hold, we shall buy maidenheads
Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,
Alarums. Enter MACBETH
I am sick still, heart-sick. Pisanio,
Enter, on the other side of the field, RICHMOND,  Sir William Brandon, OXFORD, and others. Some of the Soldiers pitch RICHMOND's tent
have run some ground. My master's a very Jew: give
Exeunt
'The thrice three Muses mourning for the death
Thisby that will never please. First, Pyramus must
Talk not, Signior Gremio: I say he shall go to prison.
You hear how he importunes me,--the chain!
her to-morrow in the congregation, where I should
Neither have I money nor commodity
Behold, it is the privilege of mine honours,
Did ere solicit, or my hand subscribe
Call ye the warlike Talbot, for his acts
With mistful eyes, or they will issue too.
Nay, that you shall not: since you have begun,
Does conquer him that did his master conquer
Thy balm wash'd off wherewith thou wast anointed:
Carlisle, this is your doom:
A pestilent gall to me!
Be you then as the people's officer.
As much I wish all good befortune you.
What talk you of the posy or the value?
Must fill, or else my project fails,
Humbly I thank your lordship: never may
The duke's to blame in this, 'twill be ill taken.
An a' be proud with me, I'll pheeze his pride:
My sight was ever thick, regard Titinius,
is not vain-glory for a man and his glass to confer
A friend.
By Cheshu, he is an ass, as in the world: I will
Think upon what hath chanced, and, at more time,
From whence at first she weigh'd her anchorage,
Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
Had his great name profaned with their scorns
Could he say less?
I took him to be killed with a thunder-stroke. But
What think'st thou? is it not an easy matter
Quickly: and certainly she did you wrong, for you
I am, in this, commanded to deliver
And make a battery through his deafen'd parts,
I had rather to adopt a child than get it.
ANTIPHOLUS
You men of Angiers, open wide your gates,
impiety has made a feast of thee.
In his bright radiance and collateral light
Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charged at peril--
besides, you grow dishonest.
Ascend, brave Talbot, we will follow thee.
And once more in mine arms I bid him welcome,
Thou know'st that Banquo, and his Fleance, lives.
Even with the sword that kill'd thee.
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
whose hand, she being now at hand, thou shalt soon
That you might still have worn the petticoat,
I am less proud to hear you tell my worth
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts,
Doth miracle itself, loved before me.
streets, and no man regards it.
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
To CORDELIA
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
To have one show worse than the king's and his company.
Now happy he whose cloak and cincture can
How now, Kate! I must leave you within these two hours.
Your man and you are marvellous merry, sir.
For being now a favourer to the Briton,
if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously
In rage deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.
Exeunt all but WARWICK
like an old lecher's heart, a small spark, all the
King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague,
defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
No deeper wrinkles yet? hath sorrow struck
Methinks there is much reason in his sayings.
By magic verses have contrived his end?
I do assure thee, father, so it is.
'Tis none of mine.
My husband will not rejoice so much at the abuse of
And wear it for an honour in thy cap
The child was bound to the father, sir, in fine,
Let me choose
Their backward course, bearing with frank appearance
More should I question thee, and more I must,
dumb-show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
Indeed, Master Ford, this is not well, indeed.
Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor.
And write in thee the figures of their love,
then another fault in the semblance of a fowl, think
Confer with me of murder and of death:
valour bear the sin upon their own heads. I'll take
SCENE V. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
The brightest heaven of invention,
following it: but the great one that goes up the
Why stay we now? These soldiers shall be levied,
Thou ask'st me such a question. Have I not been
A storm or robbery, call it what you will,
Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
And for a further grief,--God give you joy!--
Sufficeth that I have maintains my state
He is with Caesar.
Woe to the land that's govern'd by a child!
horse with any that treads but on four pasterns.
As love is full of unbefitting strains,
Have we in hiding us? This way, the Romans
And mere instinct of love and loyalty,
What, do you shake at that?
I'll prove the contrary, if you'll hear me speak.
eyes, I will move storms, I will condole in some
Come, let us leave her,
Why, how now, Stephano!
What manner o' thing is your crocodile?
Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR
Thou hast been godlike perfect,
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
Do not say so, my lord.
SCENE III. London. Before a tavern.
promise-keeping.
Thy nerves are in their infancy again
Ay, ay, so strives the woodcock with the gin.
No? Saw you not, even now, a blessed troop
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Well, gaoler, on. Pray God, Bassanio come
Renounce your soil, give sheep in lions' stead:
What says your highness to my just demand?
through and through, my sword hacked like a
I do not like her name.
We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain:
But fearing lest my jealous aim might err
Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our
But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
resorters stand upon sound legs. How now!
'Faith, for the worst is filthy, and would not hold
Is Talbot slain, the Frenchmen's only scourge,
Having no more but thought of what thou wert,
For he conjured her she should ever keep it,
It is too heavy for so light a tune.
Thus will I fold them one on another:
Did shake down mellow fruit.
Shall lay your stately and air-braving towers,
There's magic in thy majesty, which has
years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old
excellent news of your husband.
Have thews and limbs like to their ancestors,
And shape his service wholly to my hests
drab I purchased this caparison, and my revenue is
How now, blown Jack! how now, quilt!
Exit TALBOT. Alarum, retreat, flourish
And go to't with delight.
What he his heart should make
And therewithal took measure of my body.
He that sweetest rose will find
SCENE IV. Plains near Tewksbury.
Shall I? O rare! By the Lord, I'll be a brave judge.
Exeunt Murderers
My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain,
They never flatter'd thee: what hast thou given?
I take it, by all voices, that forthwith
My famous cousin to our Grecian tents.
The vantage of his anger.
Five or six thousand, but very weak and
O, pardon! since a crooked figure may
Now let us on, my lords, and join our powers,
A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown,
While proud ambitious Edward Duke of York
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
Thou takest
'And shall!' what villain was it that spake
NYM and PISTOL draw
That our great king himself doth woo me oft
Of our solemnities.
The tribunes hear you not, no man is by,
My heart suspects more than mine eye can see.
If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
But what he look'd for should oppose and she
her dispraise those parts in me that you love with
Well, we shall then know more, and Buckingham
Have the gods envy?
Octavius, I have seen more days than you:
Lay'st thou thy leaden mace upon my boy,
Nay, I was rhyming: 'tis you that have the reason.
Exit
And bid mine eyes be packing with my heart
Though you were born in Rome:' his bloody brow
till some little time hath qualified the heat of
Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom,
Or those that with the fineness of their souls
of my father's will. I am glad this parcel of wooers
Nay, that a' did not.
Alas! good Kate, I will not burden thee,
Come hither, boy, come, come, and learn of us
Where's your father?
His company must do his minions grace,
be.
I charge you see that he be forthcoming.
And make him of like spirit to himself.
guard:--first, I must tell thee this--Desdemona is
[To KING RICHARD III]
come. I tell you for good vill: adieu.
[Within]  Break any breaking here, and I'll break your
Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise,
letter:--and she hath the prettiest sententious of
It is the cowish terror of his spirit,
They are apt enough to dislocate and tear
The Lord protect him from that kingly title!
Settlest admired reverence in a slave:
As when thy father and myself in friendship
Prithee, let her alone, and list to me.
That they supposed I could rend bars of steel,
And she a mourning widow of her nobles,
skin that was killed for the Prodigal, he that came
If he be taken, he shall never more
Run with these false and most contrarious quests
I thank thee, master.
I must needs wake you, Lady! lady! lady!
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
You must be godfather, and answer for her.
I am Pericles of Tyre: but tell me now
Consent, and for thy honour give consent,
My most dread sovereign, may it like your grace
Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.
Exit
A very gentle beast, of a good conscience.
He told me Paris should have married Juliet:
No, Warwick, no, while life upholds this arm,
Without impeachment: for, to say the sooth,
I will not be, though I should win your displeasure
No, madam, we have cull'd such necessaries
This Charmian lived but now, she stood and spake:
And now they meet where both their lives are done.
I was, but I do find more pain in banishment
No less in space, validity, and pleasure,
I see a cherub that sees them. But, come, for
The native mightiness and fate of him.
My best and freshest men, served his designments
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
Thereof most worthy, were I the fairest youth
That thou art even natural in thine art.
Be of comfort,
'Tis politic and safe to let him keep
SCENE I. On board PERICLES' ship, off Mytilene. A close
Shall shine from far
Think you, my lord, this little prating York
The king his father call'd Guiderius,--Jove!
Re-enter LUCIUS
I know that, fool.
Carry this mad knave to the gaol. Father Baptista,
Then I would you were so honest a man.
Do you withdraw yourself a little while,
curiously, say my knife's naught. Shall I not find
Most worthy brother England, fairly met:
To leave this place. Albeit you have deserved
With this abundance of superfluous breath?
Exceeding pleasant, none a stranger there
Lords o'er their lords?
For in the ingrafted love he bears to Caesar--
Neither my husband nor the slave return'd,
the rejoicing?
SCENE VII. Baynard's Castle.
'Tis strange to think how much King John hath lost
Why, ne'er repent it, if it were done so.
my cousin Toby? Let some of my people have a special
Knocks go and come, God's vassals drop and die,
By inspiration of celestial grace,
You shall ha' it, worthy sir.
And spirits walk and ghosts break up their graves,
Tush, that was in thy rage:
That this may be some error, but no madness,
Well met here.
Of lords and ladies, having brought the queen
Women nearest, but men, men are the things
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
My royal father, cheer these noble lords
To leave me but a little to myself.
And not depending on his friendly wish.
That broker, that still breaks the pate of faith,
Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,
How many then should cover that stand bare!
Heaven is above all yet, there sits a judge
Yes, by Saint Anne, do I. A good matter, surely:
And leave out thee? stay, dog, for thou shalt hear me.
solemn talk.
art. Look you, who comes here?
Come, lady, come. Farewell, my friend.
So please your lordship, none.
What touches us ourself shall be last served.
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes,
For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears,
Let it be so: the first inter'gatory
O Ratcliff, I have dream'd a fearful dream!
Who did guide,
Worth name of life in thee hath estimate,
my counterfeiting the action of an old woman,
Wouldst thou be window'd in great Rome and see
Ties up my tongue, and will not let me speak.
For whom he now is banish'd, her own price
that thou wilt not be drunk, but I know thou art no
Have here bereft my brother of his life.
And thou with all pleased, that hast all achieved!
So many days my ewes have been with young,
the first cock.
she carves, she gives the leer of invitation: I
is fair, yet I am well, another is wise, yet I am
And so am I, whether I smack or no,
Dowlas, filthy dowlas: I have given them away to
His silver skin laced with his golden blood,
Well, masters, we hear our charge: let us go sit here
will, for his honour's sake, have one bout with you,
But, soft! no bedfellow!--O god s and goddesses!
you have seen the sequel.
'Lack, to what end?
In sight of God and us, your guilt is great:
ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar.
The duke! Why, Warwick, when we parted,
Your tender kinsman and to choke his days
Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast,
To one above itself. Each following day
To keep them back that come to succor you:
Beshrew his hand, I scarce could understand it.
Little pretty, because little. Wherefore apt?
Not like a corse, or if, not to be buried,
Now, most noble Brutus,
swimmer, Troilus the first employer of panders, and
As infinite as imminent! but I'll be true.
Not to the beast that would usurp their den.
Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
Exeunt BANQUO and FLEANCE
What seem I that I am not?
Who cannot want the thought how monstrous
SCENE I. London. A street.
And ten to one is no impeach of valour.
Thou bleed'st apace.
chamber window, where we play, open, and the moon
I do the wrong, and first begin to brawl.
'T has done, upon the premises, but justice:
And I believe twill never stand upright
Thanks you for this great care: I stood i' the level
For blessed are the peacemakers on earth.
Are nobly undergone and most poor matters
O ruin'd piece of nature! This great world
By the white hand of my lady, he's a gallant prince.
He'll breed revengement and a scourge for me,
The trust I have is in mine innocence,
Took it in rage, though calm'd have given't again:
And he that slew them fouler than he is:
In one of those same sheets.
There is no lady of more softer bowels,
Some mortally, some slightly touch'd, some falling
Good Sir Toby!
Enter SIMONIDES, reading a letter, at one door: the Knights meet him
to think on't. What says she there?
And in thy hateful lungs, yea, in thy maw, perdy,
And your experience makes you sad: I had rather have
I understand thee not.
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
Where there's another man: the vows of women
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
Pray God you have not murdered some of them.
A plot upon her virtuous husband's life,
And make his dead trunk pillow to our lust.
That every Roman bears, and nobly bears,
relief nor my voice for thy preferment.
they'ld do't!
To prick the sides of my intent, but only
upon great persuasion, and partly to save your life,
A man at least, for less I should not be,
full of briers is this working-day world!
With any size of words.
Indeed, I bid the base for Proteus.
By ruffian lust should be contaminate!
I'll hunt with him, and let them be received,
Exeunt
heart, that there shall not be one spot of love in't.
Needs not the painted flourish of your praise:
I have one myself,
blessing I am at him upon my knees every morning and
His brows within a golden crown and call'd
He is gone happy, and has left me rich:
And you, sir, for this chain arrested me.
Prest for this blow. The unborn event
And say poor Margaret was a prophetess!
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
Thy words move rage and not remorse in me:
Nay, but who is it?
No, I will rob Tellus of her weed,
No, my lord, I saw nothing.
How hard it is to hide the sparks of nature!
So I may keep mine eyes: O, spare mine eyes.
What, shall we forth?
Is stopp'd, the very source of it is stopp'd.
man and a fool.
To reconcile you all unto the king.
When it proved otherwise?
Is he pursued?
Hector is dead, there is no more to say.
The one in motley here,
In their embracement, as they grew together,
So, if the issue of the elder son
These sentences, to sugar, or to gall,
You to your former honour I bequeath,
And all things change them to the contrary.
Who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty,
I do not like the man: had he been lay, my lord
With willing sport to the wild ocean.
Who would be jealous then of such a one?
The darnel, hemlock and rank fumitory
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
Obeying with my wind when I do blow,
To set my brother Clarence and the king
But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin,
As recompense of our dear services
But I attest the gods, your full consent
The arbitrement is like to be bloody. Fare you
To fight with Glendower and the Earl of March.
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
To excuse the current of thy cruelty.
that will use the devil himself with courtesy:
If you spite it for my sake, I will spite it for
And then your highness shall command a peace.
Moe than you rob: take wealth and lives together,
Pray you, sir, stand up: I am sure you are not
Paying the fine of rated treachery
Delighted them in any other form,
He did, and from my finger snatch'd that ring.
ANTIPHOLUS
To offer war where they should kneel for peace,
The noble thanes do bravely in the war,
You saw my master wink and laugh upon you?
Alack, I am afraid they have awaked,
No, it is struck.
To take a paper up that I let fall.
Come, come, we fear the worst, all shall be well.
What man is that?
Whose every touch, would force the feeler's soul
went to span-counter for French crowns, I am content
A scatter'd smile, and that I'll live upon.
Go to, you are not, Cassius.
bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
With all the choicest music of the kingdom,
the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
Of mere compassion and of lenity,
Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
As theirs, so mine, and all be as it is.
At the discovery of most dangerous treason
They are entirely welcome.
But, for his purpose in the coronation.
My Lord of Suffolk, Buckingham, and York,
God bless him!
When Lear is mad. What wilt thou do, old man?
Fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears,
Which must be even as swiftly follow'd as
were she earthly, no nobler,--whither do you follow
Our Perdita is found.
Command thy son and daughter to join hands.
As amply titled as Achilles is,
By east, west, north, and south, I spread my
good my lord, do not recompense me in making me a cuckold.
Good morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter,
lie with his wife. Come to me soon at night.
Those clouds removed, upon our watery eyne.
Caesarion, whom they call my father's son,
She doth indeed, my daughter says so: and the
Repent you, fair one, of the sin you carry?
Exit Servant
Sir, I am too old to learn:
Hear from me, it shall be for thy good.
Hot, hot, and moist: this hand of yours requires
As I had leave of means?
And the poor beetle, that we tread upon,
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate:
Fare you well.
A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend,
Who are the votaries, my loving lords,
Like true, inseparable, faithful loves,
Or senseless speaking or a speaking such
It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus.
For what you seem to fear: so, the gods keep you,
That, in the course of justice, none of us
Let's choose executors and talk of wills:
Exit
Re-enter Citizens
The long-grown wounds of my intemperance:
To beaten Douglas, and the Earl of Athol,
I grant it: pray, but be not tedious,
I promised we would be contributors
To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy
Ha!
Hath seal'd thee for herself, for thou hast been
Upon a dwarfish thief.
I would there were no age between sixteen and
This dangerous conception in this point.
The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold,
Caesar did write for him to come to Rome.
And Humphrey Duke of Gloucester scarce himself,
And harmful pity must be laid aside.
his demands to the point, only refer yourself to
Our content
How now, my hearts! did you never see the picture
dozens? Is this Moorfields to muster in? or have
Your wisdom best shall think.
You know him not, sir.
And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof,
Ay, sir, very well.
The woman's part in me! For there's no motion
What, the commonwealth their boots? will she hold
music awhile, if they will fare so harshly o' the
yesty collection, which carries them through and
The means of weakness and debility,
to my shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my
You might have spoken a thousand things that would
And whether we shall meet again I know not.
More than thy fame and envy. Fix thy foot.
telling true, but so.
Thy father bears the type of King of Naples,
The same, sir.
Whereof perchance these are but furnishings,
But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear
First, for his weeping into the needless stream,
Enter Nurse, with cords
As great in blood as I myself.--
Troubles the silver spring where England drinks.
You told us of some suit, what is't, Laertes?
The wonder is, he hath endured so long:
When she is gone. Then open not thy lips:
And let us, Polydore, though now our voices
Reads
so fair and excellent ladies any thing. But let
Exeunt
Betwixt my love and your high majesty.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
To shun the danger that his soul divines.
Then here I take my leave of thee, fair son,
He sheweth him a paper
some stair-work, some trunk-work, some
To his father, that so tenderly and entirely
And you were Isabel! should it then be thus?
Then it is thus: the passions of the mind,
That were a state fit for his holiness.
'If once he come to be a cardinal,
Consider further,
I cannot stay to hear these articles.
Would I were dead, but that, methinks, already--
double-dealer: there's another.
Five hundred ducats, villain, for a rope?
These hands are free from guiltless bloodshedding,
This sword of mine shall give them instant way,
The honey of his language. No, he's settled,
So should you be.
Sorry am I that our good will effects
Of which I do accuse myself so sorely,
Put into circumscription and confine
To be produced--as, if I stay, I shall--
How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false
O, that thou wert not, poor distressed soul!
To-morrow will it please you to be crown'd?
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
I see the lady hath a thing to grant,
Is much beyond our loss. Our hint of woe
come something nearer.
But, alack, my hand is sworn
The way twice o'er.
his mouth, and promise, like Brabbler the hound:
Edward the Third, my lords, had seven sons:
Exeunt
Being free itself, it thinks all others so.
I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
To entail him and his heirs unto the crown,
All, if you will, for I myself am best
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain,
and delivered to the king her father'--
Where is my father, and my mother, nurse?
Exeunt
Enwheel thee round!
Jove's Mercury, and herald for a king!
Why do fond men expose themselves to battle,
Look, where thy love comes, yonder is thy dear.
Then fly. What, from myself?   Great reason why:
Good prudence, smatter with your gossips, go.
With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore:
That two-fold balls and treble scepters carry:
I will from hence to-day.
To make her come and know her keeper's call,
There's Dolabella sent from Caesar, call him.
With such holiness can you do it?
It shall be done, my lord.
To DESDEMONA
Shall of a corn cry woe,
My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,
A man that all his time
Thou shouldst have better pleased me with this deed,
We'll mannerly demand thee of thy story,
From one bad thing to worse, not frenzy, not
What patch is made our porter? My master stays in
thou sawest me not. Fare thee well.
Than in our priest-like fasts: therefore I'll watch him
To suckle fools and chronicle small beer.
Come, leave your tears: a brief farewell: the beast
Come, go along, my wife is coming yonder.
for, I protest, her frown might kill me.
May these add to the number that may scald thee!
No, noble Ajax, you are as strong, as valiant, as
Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
This is old: what is the success?
And, being a woman, I will not be slack
For so I see she must be, 'fore Leontes:
This was an ill beginning of the night:
Sound, music! Come, my queen, take hands with me,
And that distill'd by magic sleights
A footman, sweet sir, a footman.
He approaches: you shall hear him.
Come, come, Antipholus, we dine too late.
Patricians, draw your swords: and sheathe them not
Thank your majesty.
Marry, sir, they praise me and make an ass of me,
That those whom you call'd fathers did beget you.
You shall not only take the sacrament
Some Neapolitan, or meaner man of Pisa.
Let nobody blame him, his scorn I approve,-
That the pursuers took him. At my tent
She's coming, to her, coz. O boy, thou hadst a father!
Ay, that the king is dead.
ass will not mend his pace with beating, and, when
his company anatomized, that he might take a measure
For this is thine and not King Henry's heirs'
He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
I should think so: he hath sent me an earnest
Sir,
Kindled with unchaste desire,
Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
Officed with me: we two will walk, my lord,
By certain scales i' the pyramid, they know,
Will it be ever thus? Ungracious wretch,
Methinks no body should be sad but I:
Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke of Hereford?
Even to their ships.
Do you confess the bond?
And yielding to another when it blows,
We have some old crab-trees here
To pray for her! Go to, it is a plague
Will prove too bloody, and the end of it
Save that, in love unto Demetrius,
Mistress, upon my life, I tell you true,
must take me up for swearing, as if I borrowed mine
Exit Guardsman
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
Your naked infants spitted upon pikes,
Save thou the child, so we may all be safe.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Faith, holy uncle, would
They would not have you to stir forth to-day.
Which makes my whitest part black. The will of heaven
For these my friends in spite of thee shall wear.
My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys
Most fruitfully: I am there before my legs.
out of brothels, thy hand out of plackets, thy pen
With them, the two brave bears, Warwick and Montague,
If I be waspish, best beware my sting.
His favour with the radiant Cymbeline,
Ha! now I see thou art a fool, and fit for thy master.
And will at last break out into a flame:
Enforced thee! art thou king, and wilt be forced?
To pray for them that have done scathe to us.
Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one!
Were we before our armies, and to fight.
That he is bound to? Wife, thou art a fool.
the said Henry shall espouse the Lady Margaret,
As once Europa did at lusty Jove,
This quarrel would excite? Yet, I protest,
I should not urge it half so faithfully.
Enter TALBOT, with trump and drum
Thou hast my love: is not that neighbourly?
Give it to me: what, is it in the case?
To thee and thine hereditary ever
of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof.
Who brought that letter from the cardinal?
Some light-foot friend post to the Duke of Norfolk:
usurers' men! bawds between gold and want!
Murder most foul, as in the best it is,
Hasten his musters and conduct his powers:
Cancel all grudge, repeal thee home again,
But saying o'er what I have said before:
they would talk themselves mad.
But this is something odd.
I will put it to them: but vir sapit qui pauca
For standing by when Richard stabb'd her son.
Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind
Of which if you should here disfurnish me,
Enter TROILUS and ULYSSES, at a distance, after them, THERSITES
And mayst be honour'd, being Cato's son.
As you love Rosalind, meet:
Were equal poise of sin and charity.
So many miseries have crazed my voice,
I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,
Then I degraded you from being king,
May fall to match you with her country forms
And telling me the sovereign'st thing on earth
Break out into a second course of mischief,
For there is none of you so mean and base,
Should be 'Remember mine.'
Reads
Or like a gallant horse fall'n in first rank,
supplication?
He's coming, madam, I hear him.
Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate
mastership?
What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows,
My sister may receive it much more worse,
Is south the chamber, and the chimney-piece
You shall know all that you are like to know.
Very true,
One o' these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit.
I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio,
And we will make thee famous through the world.
My lord, most humbly on my knee I beg
woman with picking thy pocket! why, thou whoreson,
Takes off his crown
He could not miss't.
Now I am alone.
By my troth, 's not so good, and I warrant your
Enter COMINIUS
He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is
Sons,
Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine:
have her first.' Such a maidenhead were no cheap
rather he should shrive me than wive me. Come,
Enter Servant
So soon as yours could win me: so it should now,
Which, though I will not practise to deceive,
Speak to the people, and they pity her.
Draws us a profit from all things we see,
Which the rather
Held me in chase, that I was forced to wheel
For all her cherubim look.
My lord, I did,
This is my doing, now: 'Nay,' said I, 'will you cast
Hail!
Before the time be out? no more!
This murderous shaft that's shot
The cloth of honour over her, are four barons
I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that
Wherever we shall meet, for Timon's sake,
Should outlive Caesar: we shall find of him
Father, and wife, and gentlemen, adieu,
Where is she, sir? Come nearer,
So vanish'd: which foreshow'd our princely eagle,
Show them the unaching scars which I should hide,
Nay, come, sit down, then on.
Thou hast prevail'd, I pardon them and thee:
And come, young Cato, let us to the field.
Trust none,
And, by device, let blockish Ajax draw
the guilt of premeditated and contrived murder,
To see what friends are living, who are dead.
Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death,
Take up the English short, and let them know
Of what is to be dreaded.
Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin.
grown a very land-fish, language-less, a monster.
So shaken as we are, so wan with care,
Enter BUCKINGHAM and CLIFFORD
wouldst make an absolute courtier, and the firm
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep:
Henry the Fifth he first train'd to the wars,
To SELEUCUS
The deeds of justest men.
And that high royalty was ne'er pluck'd off,
Belike you thought our love would last too long,
It would become me
And his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
All may be well.
Was he not born of woman? The spirits that know
Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture,
Of Cappadocia, Philadelphos, king
This ring was mine, I gave it his first wife.
more mature dignities and royal necessities made
SCENE II. A room in CORIOLANUS'S house.
Communicatest with dreams,--how can this be?--
And you, sir.
Weeps when she sees me work, and says, such baseness
Will you follow, gentlemen? I beseech you, follow,
But in a dream of friendship?
Against the wind a mile! You souls of geese,
There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
And from the bishop's huntsmen rescued him,
The leaf to read them. Let us toward the king.
Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow!
He sends this bloody napkin. Are you he?
If not, our swords shall plead it in the field.
Who may, in the ambush of my name, strike home,
Authorized by her grandam. Shame itself!
As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
toy in hand here, sir: nay, pray be covered.
rather shunned to go even with what I heard than in
For me to try how: all I know of it
Give it the captain.
Spur your proud horses hard, and ride in blood,
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come,
For Gratiano never lets me speak.
I think, thy horse will sooner con an oration than
Fair sir, and you my merry mistress,
For many weary months.
SCENE III. An ante-chamber of the QUEEN'S apartments.
me wherefore.
What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?
Enter Mariners wet
Our bosom interest: go pronounce his present death,
When I shall ask the banns and when be married.
Therefore this maxim out of love I teach:
Ho, ho, confess'd it! hang'd it, have you not?
nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
himself in Thames up to the neck, and so I would he
Lest it make you choleric and purchase me another
And never did desire to see thee more.
How now, my dear Othello!
Should once set footing in your generous bosoms?
Yes Shylock, I will seal unto this bond.
With less allegiance in it! Men that make
Then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends.
Robs me of that which not enriches him
But let the ruffian Boreas once enrage
A fox to be the shepherd of thy lambs.
Hear while I speak it, love:
machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all
I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
The purchase is to make men glorious,
friend, and I fear not mine own shame so much as his
After I have done what I promised?
No jewel is like Rosalind.
Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to
way:
He is there: see what humour he is in, and I will
Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO
a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must
Upon a stranger?
My sweet Patroclus, I am thwarted quite
Fleance his son, that keeps him company,
He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
'Redime te captum quam queas minimo.'
I'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer,
But his evasion, wing'd thus swift with scorn,
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
The end of war's uncertain, but this certain,
And then, sir, would he gripe and wring my hand,
Cupid is no longer an archer: hi s glory shall be
Is there no manners left among maids? will they
Why, then may you leave a casement of the great
I have inquired, so has my husband, man by man, boy
No better a musician than the wren.
As we shall find their merits and our safety
Which out of daily fortune ever taints
And you within it: if he fail of that,
Sir Valentine, whither away so fast?
Nay, good Sir Toby.
The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn
Except she bend her humour, shall be assured
I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell,
Let us first see peace in Athens: there is no time
Enter IMOGEN
And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin,
This comes off well, here's a wise officer.
After some respite will return to Calais,
I saw him not these many years, and yet
Kings are earth's gods, in vice their law's
And dare me to the desert with thy sword,
What think you of this fool, Malvolio? doth he not mend?
Knocking within
Valentine?
Would he were gelt that had it, for my part,
So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom.
When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
Where Philomel gave up. I have enough:
Against thy majesty, boys, with women's voices,
Nay, go not back.
Make your proof.
A little riper and more lusty red
And thence retire me to my Milan, where
How to get clear of all the debts I owe.
Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia.
He had rather venture all his limbs for honour
There is no fear in him, let him not die,
turns up the white o' the eye to his discourse. But
For putting on so new a fashion'd robe.
Set limb to limb, and thou art far the lesser,
Pompey: you will turn good husband now, Pompey, you
Hearing us praise our loves of Italy
I say, my lord, they have deserved death.
My lord?
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
Alas, poor man! grief has so wrought on him,
Re-enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, with JOAN LA PUCELLE
With twenty trenched gashes on his head,
Why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum,
Because we bid it. Say, is it done?
A liberal rewarder of his friends:
Who in a moment even with the earth
Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.
Do not you fear: upon mine honour,
Through Athens I am thought as fair as she.
With Desdemona alone.
Makes sound opinion sick and truth suspected,
I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.
Would they speak with me?
In manner and form following, sir, all those three:
Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue
But yet I would your father had been here.
That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion,
I'll not endure it: you forget yourself,
Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
Now thy proud neck bears half my burthen'd yoke,
Seems more than we shall find it: were it good
That bear a weighty and a serious brow,
The king doth smile at, and is well prepared
Trumpets sound within
I have lived in such dishonour, that the gods
From him that has most cause to grieve it should be,
I'll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee,
no, not for dwelling where you do: if I do, Pompey,
Well, heaven knows how I love you, and you shall one
Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer's staff,
comptible, even to the least sinister usage.
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
Lives almost by his looks, and for myself--
We'll none of that: that have I told my love,
Enter a Servant
Die the death:
Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs and weeps:
Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight?
More free from peril than the envious court?
Prithee, allow the wind.
If you outstay the time, upon mine honour,
had ten times more valour than this roaring devil i'
Enter TAMORA
I neither know it nor can learn of him.
Well, here I am set.
that all the beholders take his part with weeping.
Upon her landing, Antony sent to her,
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
Into his title, the which we find
And sing our bondage freely.
The hateful commons will perform for us,
art hanged. This is to Lord Timon, this to
My charge was but to fetch you from the mart
needs buy and sell men and women like beasts, we
Pembroke and Stafford, you in our behalf
How far is't call'd to Forres? What are these
Can trip me, if I err, who with wet cheeks
That no man hath access by day to her.
Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me,
The ground that gave them first has them again:
dined with him, and told him on't, and come again to
Come, shall we go and kill us venison?
Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him,
Her portion equal his.
And for his ordinary pays his heart
Some wine, boys!
We must not think the Turk is so unskilful
Enter, with drum and colours, MARCIUS, TITUS  LARTIUS, Captains and Soldiers. To them a Messenger
And, madam, if my uncle Marcus go,
None but for some and yet all different.
It may be,
Upon the rack, Bassanio! then confess
That in your chambers gave you chastisement?
The best is past. Brother, my lord the duke,
The fifth was Edmund Langley, Duke of York,
When there is such disorder in my wit.
We hold our town for neither, yet for both.
Enter CALIBAN
ears. I have served him from the hour of my
We are too well acquainted with these answers:
I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.
There's letters from my mother: what the import is,
Calling my officers about me, in my branched velvet
Now is my turn to speak. Behold this child:
Come hither, spirit:
Arrest thee of high treason, in the name
Peace, mayor! thou know'st little of my wrongs:
I could not sleep.
O cunning, how I got it!--nay, some marks
I must be patient:
Is it good den?
him. But to answer you as you would be understood,
To beautify thy triumphs and return,
If he be leaden, icy-cold, unwilling,
For when no friends are by, men praise themselves.
time to recover.
water, and give him another hope, to betray him to
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
Enter Troilus's Boy
Mount thou my horse, and hide thy spurs in him,
In thunder and in earthquake, like a Jove,
You, Pyramus' father: myself, Thisby's father:
Exceeds what we expected.
Of wisdom, gravity, profound conceit,
Got 'tween the lawful sheets.
With whom the father liking took,
That pure congealed white, high Taurus snow,
And break my utterance, even in the time
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
In their own fashion, like a merriment.
Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my
Unto my mother's prayers I bend my knee.
That we the horrider may seem to those
Our most disloyal lady, for, as she hath
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Came on the part of York, press'd by his master,
What do you mean, my lord?
Left I his title out.
Exeunt certain Officers
And nothing brings me all things. Go, live still,
colours. But to return to the verses: did they
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind,
End ere I do begin.
Ah balmy breath, that dost almost persuade
New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night
'hic jacet.'
His livery, and deny his offer'd homage,
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
compulsion! If reasons were as plentiful as
he says he has a stratagem for't: when your
Then, if you speak, you must not show your face,
With fury from his native residence.
Peace, ye fat-guts! lie down, lay thine ear close
Now spurs the lated traveller apace
For I do see the cruel pangs of death
Think'st thou I'ld make a lie of jealousy,
Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky,
The lethargy must have his quiet course:
Writ in remembrance more than things long past:
For my profession's sacred from above:
To CHIRON
Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
Which will not prove a whip: as many coxcombs
Divides more wider than the sky and earth,
You are always my good friend, if your will pass,
Lady,
We'll speak with thee at sea: at land, thou know'st
Peace, you rogue, no more o' that. Here comes my
If you strike me, you are no gentleman,
else you may be marvellously mistook.
Then the charm is firm and good.
And perish constant fools. Who is't can blame him?
Who, as Ulysses says, opinion crowns
The name of Cassius honours this corruption,
Come with my lady hither.
If this be not a dream I see and hear.
Welcome, Iago, we must to the watch.
While other sports are tasking of their minds,
Have at thee!
I needs must rest me.
From these sad thoughts, that work too much upon him:
And this distilled liquor drink thou off,
'Tis in my head to do my master good:
I have been up this hour, awake all night.
Well, thou shalt see, thy eyes shall be thy judge,
With all my wits, my pains and strong endeavours,
Since I am charged in honour and by him
Blow me about in winds! roast me in sulphur!
And makes men mad.
With tears as salt as sea, through thy unkindness:
To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales
Well, I will see what I can do for thee: if I can
Now for the counsel of my son and queen!
So do I, my lord:
I am in all affected as yourself,
And add more coals to Cancer when he burns
My Lord of Canterbury, and got your leave
The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek,
And, should we shift estates, yours would be mine.
Now thou'rt troublesome.
Claribel.
DON
To find his title with some shows of truth,
Or shall they last, and we rejoice in them?
Seems much unequal: he's married to Octavia.
You find not the apostraphas, and so miss the
Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make
We make ourselves fools, to disport ourselves,
should be hanged and carved upon these trees?
Belike she thinks that Proteus hath forsook her.
Simois,' I know you not, 'hic est Sigeia tellus,' I
Trumpets sound. Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS, a Soldier meeting them
But, O! the treacherous Fastolfe wounds my heart,
The like allayment could I give my grief.
Both which I have had: but their date is out, and
As far as land will let me, by your side.
French part of such a boy, and for my English moiety
Not painted with the crimson spots of blood.
A gift that heaven gives for him, which buys
What says our general?
Wish we all joy and honour.
Even as the axe falls, if I be not faithful!
What sayest thou, Biondello?
Thinking his prattle to be tedious,
To taunt and scorn you thus opprobriously?
Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
Peace-a your tongue. Speak-a your tale.
Forbear till this company be past.
It is now apparent?
My lord, I have consider'd with myself
Yes, Caliban her son.
I will not speak with her.
God bless my ladies! are they all in love,
Find him, and bring him hither.
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
Ill not pay a denier. What, will you make a younker
He hath the jewel of my life in hold,
purpose you undertake is dangerous, the friends you
We come to speak with him, and you shall not sin,
were sensible as your finger, that you might leave
Me?
Each one, tripping on his toe,
Detains him from Cordelia.
and your sister. Angelo had never the purpose to
And will not temporize with my entreaties,
Sir, you shall understand what hath befall'n,
And hardly shall I carry out my side,
be so, good Corporal Nym.
I'll to him, he is hid at Laurence' cell.
By the Lord, thou art a traitor to say so: thou
knows more of Anne's mind than I do, nor can do more
Have you so slander any moment leisure,
As doubtful thoughts, and rash-embraced despair,
He sent to me, sir,--Here he comes.
Bringing the murderous coward to the stake,
I am a king, and privileged to speak.
O traitors, villains!
'My lady's father'! my lord's knave: your
Exeunt BERTRAM and Lords
By what we do to-night.
It is our part and promise to the Athenians
How! how!
truly, he is very courageous mad about his throwing
Will make him fly an ordinary pitch,
'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
Look to the lady.
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES' palace.
Not poison any further.
reformation. There shall be in England seven
biting of it, what pain she felt: truly, she makes
It irks his heart he cannot be revenged.
Out with that too, it was Eve's legacy, and cannot
Wherein? and what taxation? My lord cardinal,
I ne'er saw Syracusa in my life.
These deeds must not be thought
What it is worth embraced.
Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter.
Where learned you that oath, fool?
Is not this suit of mine, that thou declare
will do as I may: that is my rest, that is the
Why should he be killed?
Hie hence, and tell him so. Yet, stay awhile,
Traduced by odious ballads: my maiden's name
things supernatural and causeless. Hence is it that
We need not put new matter to his charge:
skim milk with so honourable an action! Hang him!
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Thy grace shall have it.
Marry, whip thee, gosling: I think I shall have
Such Brooks are welcome to me, that o'erflow such
I pray thee, stay.
Arthur of Bretagne, yield thee to my hand,
Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk.
capons and clocks the tongues of bawds and dials the
Drawing her aside
Lord Cerimon, my lord, this man,
But since he's gone, the king's seas must please:
And I to Ford shall eke unfold
Without a parallel, those being all my study,
knave, a thin-faced knave, a gull!
I'll pour this pestilence into his ear,
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
Living to time.
Enter PANDARUS
For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
That never object pleasing in thine eye,
[Aside]  I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.
Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan,
Did, as a prophet, weep what it foresaw
Tell me her father's name and 'tis enough,
into London under the form of a soldier. And such
As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends,
My acts, decrees, and statutes I deny:
Nay, I must hold you.
perplexity, yet did not this cruel-hearted cur shed
Brimful of sorrow and dismay, but chiefly
it quite, friar, till eating and drinking be put
blame her then, being a maid yet rosed over with the
Upon the hill of Basan, to outroar
And mark my greeting well, for what I speak
that I may proceed in my speech.
Meeting the cheque of such another day:
Enter MACBETH
Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand:
The tribunes cannot do't for shame, the people
A second Hector, for his grim aspect,
His very hair is of the dissembling colour.
And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars,
Thou art so fat-witted, with drinking of old sack
Not with fond shekels of the tested gold,
Purpose to answer what thou canst object.
Gaoler, look to him.
I gave my love a ring and made him swear
Yet your good will
She should have stayed in France and starved
Would cry to a sailor, Go hang!
You are deceived: for what I mean to do
A borrow'd title hast thou bought too dear:
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
and heir to Mars, set at upper end o' the table, no
Much attribute he hath, and much the reason
non pour les dames d'honneur d'user: je ne voudrais
I cannot be so answer'd.
My Lord of Winchester, you are a little,
Enter LEONTES, POLIXENES, FLORIZEL, PERDITA, CAMILLO, PAULINA, Lords, and Attendants
Given order for our horses, and to-night,
Here's Decius Brutus, he shall tell them so.
Enter MARK ANTONY and CANIDIUS
Till I had made mine own occasion mellow,
The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
The prayers of holy saints and wronged souls,
to the yielding, had I admittance and opportunity to friend.
Where all those pleasures live that art would
Give life to yours.
As heart can think or courage execute.
Boskos thromuldo boskos.
To make a shambles of the parliament-house!
I shall be pinch'd to death.
'Be not afraid of greatness:' 'twas well writ.
You have often
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
bald, a fair face will wither, a full eye will wax
What says this leaden casket?
ANTIPHOLUS
Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils!
when we are sick in fortune,--often the surfeit
A kingdom for it was too small a bound,
Marry, sir, we say we are none.
Enter HUME
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
Enter SILVIA
Shame to him whose cruel striking
I tell you, lords, you do but plot your deaths
As answering to the weight: would I might never
How say you to that, Malvolio?
What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
With Leonine, a murderer.
that lord, he's ever sending: how shall I thank
confidence, and of other wooers.
Yea, his dread trident shake.
leak in your chimney, and your chamber-lie breeds
When he looks out in an ungrateful shape!--
The queen is dead.
Be friends, for shame, my lords! My Lord of
An I had but one penny in the world, thou shouldst
O, 'tis brave wars!
From mine own library with volumes that
to question them further, they made themselves air,
But by his mother was perforce withheld.
Farewell to thee too, Strato. Countrymen,
O, vile! then, as she goes, what upward lies
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
Thou mayst bereave him of his wits with wonder.
entrails were hairs, le cheval volant, the Pegasus,
Which I must needs call mine: thou art a boil,
O wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame?
Brown, madam: and her forehead
repent out the remainder of nature: let me live,
To France, to France, and get what you have lost,
and make him good friend to the people!
With dead men hurt behind, and cowards living
Well too.
I gave it freely ever, and there's none
Exit ROBIN
The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
Not on a band, but on a stronger thing,
Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales.
Exit LEPIDUS
fie!
Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I'll bide your proof.
And prostitute me to the basest groom
Suspicion all our lives shall be stuck full of eyes,
Good madam!
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Your crown content and you must be contented
And leave the burthen of it all on thee.
The high promotion of his grace of Canterbury,
My joy of liberty is half eclipsed.
Enter HENRY PERCY
Lives not this day within the city walls:
With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do?
Thieves! thieves!
and boy, thirty years.
No less in pity than his glory which
Lady, with me, with me thy fortune lies.
But I shall, in a more continuate time,
We have none such, sir.
A drop of water in the breaking gulf,
Our gracious brother, I will go with them:
Thy nimble, sulphurous flashes! O, how, Lychorida,
I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
Transform'd and weaken'd? hath Bolingbroke deposed
Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me,
Help, Lucius, help!
Marshal, demand of yonder champion
Enter a troop of Citizens
Which hoxes honesty behind, restraining
Enter MENENIUS
Whilst any trump did sound, or drum struck up,
He or she, cuckold or cuckold-maker,
If of my freedom 'tis the main part, take
'Tis true, fair daughter, and this blessed day
And, gazing in mine eyes, feeling my pulse,
Enter JULIET
Take him you on.
shall make it whole again, you shall piece it out
I would not for the world.
For so I thought I was a cave-keeper,
Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester,
heard a man of his place, gravity and learning, so
As ample as myself.
Good Aaron, wilt thou help to chop it off?
Let vultures gripe thy guts! for gourd and fullam holds,
This very night, for Love is like a child,
And though he were unsatisfied in getting,
sure of it. To express the like kindness, myself,
Will she not forth?
cousin Shallow.
Away with the dotard! to the gaol with him!
Francis!
It is the stars,
Of many in the army: many years,
So as thou livest in peace, die free from strife:
I'll have no father, if you be not he:
Sergeant, you shall.
Call hither Barnardine and Claudio:
They'll go or come: if so, be patient, sister.
In that respect, then, like a loving child,
'Tis just to each of them, he is himself.
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
'Tis my undoing: love and meekness, lord,
Yes, mercy, if you report him truly.
To take him in the purging of his soul,
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish,
That's lesser than a little.
Why came I hither but to that intent?
than any the rarest of our ladies in France.
And I may live to do you kindness if
Of our proceedings kept the earl from hence:
Which tells me in that glory once he was,
I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune,
Doth limp behind the substance. Here's the scroll,
I'll hear you by and by.
de, do de, do de. Bless thee from whirlwinds,
Now shame upon you, whether she does or no!
Not for my life: but yet I dare defend
show himself what he is and steal out of your company.
Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own,
Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.
Bagot, forbear, thou shalt not take it up.
More at your request than to please myself.
And mark what way I make: come, good my lord.
I pray you, rise, rise, Egypt.
Page, which is pretty virginity.
Beauties no richer than rich taffeta.
Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
The sooner her vile thoughts to stead,
Buck, buck, buck! Ay, buck, I warrant you, buck,
Built up, this city, for his chiefest seat:
strange things from Rome, all tending to the good of
Empties itself, as doth an inland brook
A second course of fight.
Will force him think I have pick'd the lock and ta'en
But can you, if you would?
Those rich-left heirs that let their fathers lie
great maker of cuckolds.
In the next chamber.
Enter BOTTOM
Your honours shall perceive how I will work
That you will wonder what hath fortuned.
Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER
The fool slides o'er the ice that you should break.
I read as much as from the rattling tongue
LADY MACBETH is carried out
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
The powers above us. Could I rage and roar
Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my spirit is going,
Pageants and sights of honour.
That England was defamed by tyranny.
another trick, never come in my sight more.
I did but smile till now:
Come, bring your luggage nobly on your back:
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
'Twill be two days ere I shall see you, so
Or with an outstretch'd throat I'll tell the world aloud
And all my powers do their bestowing lose,
I hope thou wilt.
handkerchers: which makes much against my manhood,
She and the duke her husband!
'I have already chose my officer.'
news on the Rialto? Who is he comes here?
My mind presageth happy gain and conquest.
Who's his lieutenant, hear you?
Our tongue is rough, coz, and my condition is not
And won by rareness such solemnity.
I'll believe both,
But, whiles he thought to steal the single ten,
'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
Begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
The walls they'll tear down than forsake the siege.
And only in that safety died her brothers.
To be fantastic may become a youth
Thou kill'st me in his life, giving him breath,
As if the golden fee for which I plead
Brief abstract and record of tedious days,
that I may repent.
May answer my good will and your good welcome here.
By my soul, a swain! a most simple clown!
while, which is not amiss to cool a man's stomach
let me be boiled to death with melancholy.
the soil, the land, the earth.
I say, it is not lost.
nothing. Will you sing?
Of censuring Rome? Rather a ditch in Egypt
Should loosen him and me.
betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
What husband in thy power I will command:
Than to accomplish twenty golden crowns!
But for the general. He would be crown'd:
Clifford, repent in bootless penitence.
Better at home, if 'would I might' were 'may.'
will keep no fool, sir, till she be married, and
No, I will do nothing at thy bidding: make thy
Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster!
No more of that. I pray you, in your letters,
Enter Poet, followed by LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, and LUCIUS
Knocking within
Were there a serpent seen, with forked tongue,
Whoe'er helps thee, 'tis thou that must help me:
That makes us wretched by the death of thee,
And you will rather show our general louts
And will not trust one of her malice with
A stop i' the chaser, a retire, anon
Or seem so craftily, and that's not good.
She's very near her hour.
Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this league
Ad manes fratrum sacrifice his flesh,
My Lord!
I will tell no tales.
Or if it be, 'tis with false sorrow's eye,
All follow this, and come to dust.
Whose hours the peasant best advantages.
Wherefore to Dover? Let him first answer that.
She gives it out that you shall marry hey:
I am too childish-foolish for this world.
As one man more, methinks, would share from me
And art thou yet to thy own soul so blind,
Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:
In your despite, upon your purse? Revenge it.
I shall, sir.
For whilst I think I am thy married wife
In this which you accuse her.
Foh, foh! come, tell a pin: you are forsworn.
Nay, yet there's more in this:
Then, that in all you writ to Rome, or else
And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart.
Which your disease requires.
tend on no man's business, laugh when I am merry and
Go to, let that be mine:
Procure me some access.
But yet you look not well upon him, for whosoever you
Exeunt Gaolers, bearing out the body of MORTIMER
DON
Might be to you in Egypt: yet, if you there
Go, get thee gone, I say.
As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.
All put on their masks
The words of Mercury are harsh after the songs of
Married your royalty, was wife to your place,
Do you not jest?
Have died had I not made it.
For inequality, but let your reason serve
The sword of Orleans hath not made me smart,
mightst have hit upon it here: the commonwealth of
Hadst thou been aught but gossamer, feathers, air,
We have dispatch'd the duke, as he commanded.
To lead you to our court, vouchsafe it then.
Farewell, my lords: we look for you to-morrow.
discretion but to hang us: but I will aggravate my
Enter NYM, BARDOLPH, PISTOL, and Boy
Alas, she has no speech.
Assemble we immediate council: Pompey
Prithee, do not turn me about, my stomach is not constant.
Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
Do you triumph, Roman? do you triumph?
A play there is, my lord, some ten words long,
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
There is no day for me to look upon,
Help, help, ho!
The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls,
He is vex'd at something.
Where is the queen?
To Attendants
I cannot speak
We shall o'erturn it topsy-turvy down.
But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours?
Kate, the elder I wax, the better I shall appear:
[Aside]  He speaks the mere contrary, crosses love not him.
thought, I dare vow for her, they touched not any
That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd,
provoked and instigated by his distemper, and,
harmony, I have not the skill.
'Tis good, sir: you are very short with us,
If it were damnable, he being so wise,
the brain awe a man from the career of his humour?
And answer, thanks: I duly am inform'd
them: the lord mayor craves aid of your honour from
the tyrant.
What say you to a neat's foot?
And prick my tender patience, to those thoughts
Let him know't.
And bow'd like bondmen, kissing Caesar's feet,
Shall best instruct you, measure me, and so
Tell them, when that my mother went with child
Englishman. Scurvy jack-dog priest! by gar, me
We are no tell-tales, madam, fear you not.
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
Do you hear, ho? you must meet my master to
Once in a month recount what thou hast been,
We would not die in that man's company
Hide it in smiles and affability:
done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
hear me call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me
Buried this sigh in wrinkle of a smile:
Enter SEBASTIAN
Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
Now join your hands, and with your hands your hearts,
A young and learned doctor to our court.
Yea, though thou do demand a prisoner,
Eight and nine, sir.
Exit
Give him as much as will make him a royal man, and
And we shall feed like oxen at a stall,
All this was order'd by the good discretion
And shall, albeit sweet music issues thence.
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
A crown for York! and, lords, bow low to him:
Come, blade, my breast imbrue:
We'll follow them with all the power we have.
O king Stephano!
To see your wives dishonour'd to your noses,--
Desires your majesty to leave the field
So are you, princes English, every one.
Traduced for levity, and 'tis said in Rome
Whom you have banish'd, does exceed you all.
I will kneel to him.
We cannot all be masters, nor all masters
To guide our measure round about the tree.
And never interrupt you.
What find I here?
This ancient morsel, this Sir Prudence, who
Though you in swearing shake the throned gods,
Do I take part: the rarer action is
But yet we want a colour for his death:
Post on the lame feet of my rhyme,
Join with the present sickness that I have,
Add thereto a tiger's chaudron,
Nay, after that, consume away in rust
That the first face of neither, on the start,
What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies,
Your lordships, that, whenever you have need,
Takes up HOTSPUR on his back
DON
How came we ashore?
That at his will he may do danger with.
Give my sweet Nan this ring: there's for thy pains.
May it please your grace,--
Bring him our purposes: and so farewell.
We go to gain a little patch of ground
I shall accept them fairly, let the presents
work with him. I will plant you two, and let the
Well, well see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side
Boys, we'll go dress our hunt. Fair youth, come in:
I can hardly believe that, since you know not what
It seems you loved not her, to leave her token.
The English are embattled, you French peers.
My Lord of Suffolk, within fourteen days
without, I know he will choose it. I will do any
So tender of rebukes that words are strokes
Do him that kindness, and take leave of him.
But little: I am arm'd and well prepared.
Good morrow, good wife.
instinct hadst thou for it?
Not I.
And at my lovely Tamora's entreats,
Que dit-il? que je suis semblable a les anges?
As with a man busied about decrees:
Love! his affections do not that way tend,
I prithee, foolish Greek, depart from me: There's
And never could maintain his part but in the force
The meanest house in Rome, so far my son--
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
Exeunt from above
Who like a good and hardy soldier fought
Strange things I have in head, that will to hand,
Have follow'd your sad steps.
Enter VALENTINE
No, Titus, no, the emperor needs her not,
Enter to them, MENENIUS
I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
I say again, there is no English soul
My riches to the earth from whence they came,
That deep and dreadful organ-pipe, pronounced
Art thou not weary, John? how dost thou fare?
I pray you, let us see you in the field:
another laced, an old rusty sword ta'en out of the
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
For one poor grain or two!
Hark you, sir: I'll have them very fairly bound:
answer: my next is, 'Most fair Pyramus.' Heigh-ho!
The hour that fools should ask.
Lucius, a bowl of wine!
royal, if thou darest not stand for ten shillings.
'Tis now your honour, daughter, to explain
Shall point on me and gild my banishment.
And why not death rather than living torment?
Come, Cassius' sword, and find Titinius' heart.
Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes
Exeunt
Exeunt
I drew to part them: in the instant came
And thence discover how with most advantage
Naughty lady,
Warwick, this is some post to us or thee.
My uncles both are slain in rescuing me,
that knows me to be in love, yet I am in love, but a
I'll be at charges for a looking-glass,
On those that are, revenges: crimes, like lands,
DON
But now her price is fall'n. Sir, there she stands:
By hurting it, or when to the lute
Where how he did prevail I shame to speak,
Her highness is in safety, fear you not:
And from the powdering tub of infamy
he was rheumatic, and talked of the whore of Babylon.
What is it that you would impart to me?
All wound with adders who with cloven tongues
Rated mine uncle from the council-board,
That can I witness, and a fouler fact
Marry, mine host, because I cannot be merry.
That strain again! it had a dying fall:
Make them be strong and ready for this hint,
Away with her, go, bear her hence perforce.
Smarting in lingering pickle.
What were I best to say? her father's brother
on myself, must I? You have not the Book of Riddles
All his successors gone before him hath done't, and
The secret of your conference?
Into a bush: under which bush's shade
Strike at thy life. Grieved I, I had but one?
Have you thought on
destruction. For these my present friends, as they
Turn on the bloody hounds with heads of steel
Come, my good lord, away.
Holla, holla!
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle.
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
Our bending author hath pursued the story,
To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm.
Hast thou drunk well?
More dregs than water, if my fears have eyes.
Polixenes blameless, Camillo a true subject, Leontes
By the bare scalp of Robin Hood's fat friar,
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
And, as thou seest, ourselves in heavy plight.
That's a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that
But what talk we of fathers, when there is such a
I will be your Rosalind in a more coming-on
Do so: to ebb
And you.
By laying defects of judgment to me, but
That York is most unmeet of any man.
Will not a calfs-skin stop that mouth of thine?
Nay then, the wanton lies, my face is black.
With a thief to the gallows, for though he go as
great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no request
my bounty further.
That is the very defect of the matter, sir.
As you have for Olivia: you cannot love her,
So do I ever:
Even what it please my lord, that shall become him.
did not hate him deadly, she would love him dearly:
I' the cave wherein they bow, their thoughts do hit
Exeunt Citizens with the body
Thou art my warrior,
This rest might yet have balm'd thy broken senses,
Doctor, your service for this time is ended,
did come to his hands, and commands shall be
I know that voice.
born! I knew thou wouldst be his death. O, poor
Frighted, and anger'd worse: go bid my woman
My royal lord,
My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse.
Madam, you wrong the king's love with these fears:
That it intends to do? My lord of Burgundy,
But yet keep time in all. Will you withdraw?
before, which hung so tottering in the balance that
Fear not, Baptista, we will content you, go to: but
she is here, a man may live as quiet in hell as in a
The duke retain'd him his. But on, what hence?
But freshly looks and over-bears attaint
And now they never meet in grove or green,
She says your worship means to make
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
Well said, my hearts! You are a princox, go:
On, to the Capitol!
For a fair victory.
That in this quarrel have been overthrown
France, triumph in thy glorious prophetess!
What I should think of this, I cannot tell:
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
No man knows whither.
in standing water, between boy and man. He is very
Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS
Slack the bolins there! Thou wilt not, wilt thou?
Why, then, 'tis hers, my lord, and, being hers,
In honour of my noble Lord of York:
Enter SILVIA above
had rather than forty shillings I had such a leg,
He is a proper man's picture, but, alas, who can
will deliver his wife into your hand. Follow.
By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.
cloak, when honester men than thou go in their hose
Small time, but in that small most greatly lived
So, your opinion is, Aufidius,
This king to Tarsus,--think his pilot thought,
I am a villain: yet I lie. I am not.
brothers in filching, and in Calais they stole a
more stubborn and boisterous expedition.
have thought this? See the hell of having a false
It shall be to him then as our good wills,
Being moved, he will not spare to gird the gods.
And she in mine.
that he shall go.
Knows he of this?
It will come,
Put on their instruments. Receive what cheer you may:
Do execution on my flesh and blood.
And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath,
I think he will eat all he kills.
Doth shine upon the dead man's earthy cheeks,
I put it in the pocket of my gown.
Better be held nor more attain'd than by
Exit with the child
I know no personal cause to spurn at him,
The several chairs of order look you scour
Showing the bracelet
Then let it lie for those that it concerns.
Being most unfit to live. I have made you mad,
The one his purple blood right well resembles,
Think I am dead and that even here thou takest,
For aught I see, this city must be famish'd,
Prithee, do, Jack.
you and dote upon the exchange.
All the charactery of my sad brows:
Whilst I have gold, I'll be his steward still.
That had to him derived your anger, did I
The Athenians both within and out that wall!
Now sit we close about this taper here,
Clarence still breathes, Edward still lives and reigns:
Tom will throw his head at them. Avaunt, you curs!
I wis it is not half way to her heart,
Exeunt
Ay, but not rough enough.
Enter ROBIN
In sign of what you are, not to reward
Ourselves alone. I'll write it: follow me.
That's a brave fellow, but he's vengeance proud, and
Yes, I think he is not a pick-purse nor a
I pray you, air, as you sit at dinner:
And now let's go hand in hand, not one before another.
Rather than purchased, what he cannot change,
Go, by this token: rise, and lend thine ear:
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
It is meat and drink to me to see a clown: by my
And twelve tight galleys: these I will assure her,
To any happy messenger from thence.
If not, my senses, better pleased with madness,
To-night we'll wander through the streets and note
There let his head and lifeless body lie,
was outrun on Cotsall.
Have broke their backs with laying manors on 'em
O, my all-worthy lord!
unless you repute yourself such a loser. What, man!
Give us some gold, good Timon: hast thou more?
Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence,
Farewell: I'll grow a talker for this gear.
I, like a child, will go by thy direction.
Exit
Aside
Thou hast served me with much faith. What's else to say?
Most provident in peril, bind himself,
Achilles bids me say, he is much sorry,
endanger my soul gratis? At a word, hang no more
A royal train, believe me. These I know:
The brother of the Duke of Burgundy,
And that's not suddenly to be perform'd,
By diligent discovery, but your haste
Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me,
But on this day let seamen fear no wreck,
And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie!
Thou baleful messenger, out of my sight!
And threw it towards thy land: the sea received it,
leave it to his discretion, and let us listen to the moon.
All, all, cry shame against me, yet I'll speak.
Your eldest daughters have fordone them selves,
Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent?
It is an honour that I dream not of.
I am sorry my integrity should breed,
It fails not yet, but flourishes in thee
Let me speak, sir,
'Tis not his new-made bride shall succor him:
She's such a one, that, were I well assured
Here's that, I warrant you, will pay them all.
I do believe it
Tell her, I hold as giddily as fortune,
For speedy aid, wherein our dearest friend
That slily glided towards your majesty,
Your death has eyes in 's head then, I have not seen
of brown thread: I said a gown.
Even for your son's sake, and thereby for sealing
Soldiers, adieu! I have what I would have,
And graced thy poor sire with his bridal-day,
brother, gain nothing under him but growth, for the
Truth's a dog must to kennel, he must be whipped
Avaunt, perplexity! What shall we do,
For you, the city, thus I turn my back:
Hath made me rig my navy, at whose burthen
'Tis said they eat each other.
I have but little gold of late, brave Timon,
As love doth give my heart, no woman's heart
Threw him ashore, to give him glad:
O, here he is.
The Duke of Bedford had a prisoner
discretion, and I will right myself like a soldier.
And tarry with him till I turn again.
preserve it from tainting: but I see you have some
Exit
But I have cause to pry into this pedant:
Fails in the promised largeness: cheques and disasters
shall I search the market?
May trumpet to the world: my heart's subdued
To sit and witch me, as Ascanius did
barbarism, and policy grows into an ill opinion.
Art not one?
Ay, by my beard, will we, for he's a proper man.
Say that upon the altar of her beauty
How dost thou, Benedick, the married man?
Exeunt
And, for your friend's sake, will be glad of you,
Quitting thee thereby of ten thousand shames,
Fled from his father, from his hopes, and with
And their executors, the knavish crows,
Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, SLENDER, Host, SIR HUGH EVANS, DOCTOR CAIUS, and RUGBY
How chance the prophet could not at that time
That wear those colours on them: what art thou,
The duke comes home to-morrow, nay, dry your eyes,
Nor grieve that Rouen is so recovered:
praised for my jealousy! Eleven o'clock the hour.
Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
From out the state of hellish misery!
time for all things.
That is not quickly buzzed into his ears?
A plague upon your epileptic visage!
THE MADLY-USED MALVOLIO.'
Be resident in men like one another
Fame, at the which he aims,
perjury, to call a prince's brother villain.
Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane,
Was in the mouth of every sucking babe,
That make their looks by his, he was not merry,
And so I chide the means that keeps me from it,
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
Three crabbed months had sour'd themselves to death,
SCENE IV. GLOUCESTER's garden.
A messenger from the Lord Stanley.
When yet you were in place and in account
I will not leave the half-achieved Harfleur
I have, my lord, at my lodging, the same suit he
Yes, when his holy state is touch'd so near.
He cannot want fifty five hundred talents.
With that grim ferryman which poets write of,
For the capacity of my ruder powers:
Sir Eglamour, I would to Valentine,
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
Neither a borrower nor a lender be,
A blister on his sweet tongue, with my heart,
thee, I bid thy master cut out the gown, but I did
If the sea's stomach be o'ercharged with gold,
SCENE II. The camp near Tamworth.
yet famine,
Yet doth he give us bold advertisement,
Woman, do what thou canst to save our honours,
Enter DUKE SOLINUS, attended, AEGEON bareheaded, with the Headsman and other Officers
I prithee, Diomed, visit me no more.
In thy despite shall 'scape mortality.
How, Camillo,
How the young whelp of Talbot's, raging-wood,
O'er ladies ' lips, who straight on kisses dream,
SCENE I. London. KING RICHARD II's palace.
Exeunt FORTINBRAS and Soldiers
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
than beauteous, truer than truth itself, have
She can scarce be there yet.
She calls me proud, and that she could not love me,
Being ordain'd his special governor,
What art thou that keepest me out from the house I owe?
Beating him
When we have here her base and pillar by us.
Sister, where thou?
Lies in their purses, and whoso empties them
They that reap must sheaf and bind,
Who, my master?
In hateful practise. First, his integrity
And solemnly see him set on to London.
Fearing to strengthen that impatience
You said that idle weeds are fast in growth
I gave thee life and rescued thee from death.
O villain!
I am in the favour of Margaret, the waiting
To see if any mean to shrink from me.
person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In good time.
cap. By my troth, I am sick.
Support him by the arm. Give me your hand,
Exeunt
That she was false to wedlock?
You thus employ'd, I will go root away
Than I by letters shall direct your course.
I fear 'twill be revenged:
Where Caesar fought with Pompey: but these offers,
Flourish of trumpets within
put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver.
Henry the Fifth: whiles they each other cross,
I am heartily sorry that he'll be glad of this.
Even for the service that long since I did thee,
Almost afraid to know itself. It cannot
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
and the king shall live without an heir, if that
With character too gross is writ on Juliet.
I have brought you a letter and a couple of pigeons here.
With very ignorance, we have kiss'd away
What sayest thou to a hare, or the melancholy of
Wherein have I so deserved of you,
First trumpet
Till half an hour hence.
thing about him. Good, then, if his face be the
Kills himself
And smooth as monumental alabaster.
Enter, with drum and colours, EDMUND, REGAN, Gentlemen, and Soldiers.
No farther than the Tower, and, as I guess,
A fellow of no mark nor likelihood.
And banding themselves in contrary parts
To KENT
You sheep, and I pasture: shall that finish the jest?
true-bred cowards as ever turned back, and for the
Which smoked with bloody execution,
And so far blameless proves my enterprise,
Ariel, thy charge
My lord?
SCENE V. A park near Middleham Castle In Yorkshire.
Enter MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE
Nay, nay, let Rape and Murder stay with me,
beggar dwell near him, or, the church stands by thy
They have made themselves, and that their fitness now
For look where Beatrice, like a lapwing, runs
So early walking did I see your son:
do? when didst thou see me heave up my leg and make
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good night to him
That they are out by lease.
For clothing me in these grave ornaments.
He made a blushing cital of himself,
Fear not, he bears an honourable mind,
That ever lay by man: which when the people
Extemporally will stage us, and present
What is it carries you away?
And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.
Durst never meddle--in the soul of state,
May't please your majesty to give us leave
The boy hath taught us manly duties: let us
And having that, do choke their service up
That in such haste I sent to seek his master!
King John, this is the very sum of all,
Strives in his little world of man to out-scorn
Exeunt POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and Messenger
He doth intend she shall be England's queen.
Than I can lay it down in likelihood.
No, noble Titus, but entreat of thee
The devil take thee, coward!
Well, you may fear too far.
You have now the good advantage of the night:
As in this king.
hereafter, which shall then have no power to stand
purchase, as I am a true man.
By Jove, 'twould be my mind!
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
speech we had to such a purpose.
There is no news, my lord, but that he writes
Your grace is welcome to a man disgraced,
Why even what fashion thou best likest, Lucetta.
How thou camest here thou mayst.
That's a certain text.
That, ere she sleep, has thrice her prayers said,
praised the vile,
mercy, friend, go you with me, and I will use your
Now, sir, 'thought is free:' I pray you, bring
Away before: conduct me to the king,
To stand on either part.
Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy
So graze as you find pasture.
This brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head.
This is Othello's ancient, as I take it.
That a king's children should be so convey'd,
to-night at my house, where I will desire thee to
Mistress Mary, if you prized my lady's favour at any
Madam, with much ado:
And yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink.
Let's see your song. How now, minion!
And tempt not yet the brushes of the war.
O wicked wall, through whom I see no bliss!
I cannot tell vat is dat: but it is tell-a me dat
As then your force did. Take that life, beseech you,
We have not made good preparation.
before day. An the Prince and Poins be not two
What should he say? We wept after her hearse,
That were with him exiled. This to be true,
Unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace,
Lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
Upon the first encounter, drave them.
you any good, and that is but a kind of bastard
Prithee, away.
And the dire death of my two sons and brothers?
Now am I Dromio and his man unbound.
Made use and fair advantage of his days,
Exeunt Serving-men, Mayor,  and c
Keep me in temper: I would not be mad!
Yes, thou spokest well of me.
That's yet unbruised: bring me but out at gate.
And tricking for our fairies.
Than a graced palace. The shame itself doth speak
You do impeach your modesty too much,
This is most likely!
Whom I most hated living, thou hast made me,
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
In the day's glorious walk, or peaceful night,
He'll be hang'd yet,
From first to last resolve you.
Runs in your veins, and my thrice-puissant liege
[Aside to SUFFOLK]      If it do,
Disguise the holy strength of their command,
Rises
I am thy king, and thou a false-heart traitor.
Either send the chain or send me by some token.
Do you hear, sir?
He started one poor heart of mine in thee.
I'll to the mart, and there for Dromio stay
Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart:
I thank thee, Clifford: say, what news with thee?
I hate him for he is a Christian,
Which fondly you would here impose on me,
To foreign princes, 'Ego et Rex meus'
And must advise the emperor for his good.
I should have ta'en some pains to bring together
swear truth out of England but he would make you
Otherwhiles the famish'd English, like pale ghosts,
Serves for the matter that is then born in't.
Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
To bar your highness claiming from the female,
Do come to Dunsinane:'  and now a wood
So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
stagger in this attempt, for here we have no temple
By heaven, I come in perfect love to him,
Such barren pleasures, rude society,
Pray, walk softly, do not heat your blood:
What she has done for me?
Seek to know no more.
to be turned away, is not that as good as a hanging to you?
Do thy right nature.
The unity and married calm of states
And as the dam runs lowing up and down,
To please his grandam, never trust me more.
And wear it as a favour, and with that
Leaves them invisible, and his siege is now
Our daughter Mary: i' the progress of this business,
Put on thee by my lord, thou ne'er shalt see
O, but she'll keep her word.
I will not struggle, I will stand stone-still.
Shall one day make the Duke of York a king.
That here was at the wrestling?
Wilt thou rest damned? God help thee, shallow man!
break, your gaskins fall.
And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks.
Your crown and kingdom, indirectly held
He robs himself that spends a bootless grief.
virtues: yet at last she concluded with a sigh, thou
[To VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA]  Your hand, and yours:
Tut, I am strong-framed, he cannot prevail with me,
'Faith, I must, she'll rail in the street else.
Whose smoke, like incense, doth perfume the sky.
Rancour will out: proud prelate, in thy face
And doth impeach the freedom of the state,
Besides, upon the very siege of justice
But march to London with our soldiers?
They thus directed, we will follow
When did she send thee?
Do, and be witness to 't.
Wherefore? tell true.
Made scruple of his praise, and wager'd with him
Such is his noble purpose, and believe 't,
Twice did he turn his back and purposed so,
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
Give me my steeled coat. I'll fight for France.
The beds i' the east are soft, and thanks to you,
Katharine our queen, before the primest creature
O ho, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.
And give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak.
Enter a Servant
Your pardon, sir, for this
I have spoke long: be pleased yourself to say
This was lofty! Now name the rest of the players.
it is the stubbornest young fellow of France, full
him, foul collier!
May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute
And when the hardiest warriors did retire,
Why, how know you that I am in love?
And live a coward in thine own esteem,
SCENE II. The house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
[To FERDINAND]  Ay, sweet my lord, and so I take my leave.
Throw their best eyes upon't!
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
And that you look'd for him this day in Padua.
magnanimous and most illustrate king Cophetua set
So puts himself unto the shipman's toil,
Aaron, a thousand deaths
Vail to her mistress Dian, still
Hath power enough to serve our turn. But who comes here?
ruff and sing, ask questions and sing, pick his
praised: but reserve still to give, lest your
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
I thank God, I thank God. Is't true, is't true?
What warlike voice,
The untuned and jarring senses, O, wind up
Iago hath direction what to do,
By my heel, I care not.
He shall well know
Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent!
your thoughts be servants to you! Be comfortable
Let not sloth dim your horrors new-begot:
coming down this walk: he has been yonder i' the
That will be excellent. I'll go and buy them vizards.
Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears,
And thanks, and ever [         ] oft good turns
They have o'erlook'd me and divided me,
More tight at this than thou: dispatch. O love,
Exit
Or who hath brought the fatal engine in
Whose death indeed's the strongest in our censure:
Controlling majesty: alack, alack, for woe,
When shall I hear all through? This fierce
I did not then entreat to have her stay,
SCENE IV. A street.
What, hast thou been long blind and now restored?
SCENE III. The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
O Ratcliff, I fear, I fear,--
If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
Aside to ARIEL
But, since it serves my purpose, I will venture
How came these things to pass?
This is a sorry sight.
Good my lord, give me thy favour still.
That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honour
Enter GRATIANO
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear,
embrace your own safety and give over this attempt.
By Jeshu, I am your majesty's countryman, I care not
Nay, he is dead, and slain by Edward's hand.
I should not then ask Casca what had chanced.
Enter a Groom of the Stable
Exeunt
A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
Why, tis no matter, man, if they did hear,
much in request, for the old women were all dead.
Is kindling coals that fires all my breast,
If for thy ransom thou wilt now compound,
Why then I suck my teeth and catechise
And, madam, you must call him Rutland now:
of the south, the guts-griping, ruptures, catarrhs,
Am I or that or this for what he'll utter,
When that the watery palate tastes indeed
My mind hath been as big as one of yours,
I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
fox, and for womanhood, Maid Marian may be the
Mine eyes are full of tears, I cannot see:
With that malignant cause wherein the honour
Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
Cry 'holla' to thy tongue, I prithee, it curvets
That's but a trifle here.
servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
But when in other habits you are seen,
The fraud of England, not the force of France,
Then should the warlike Harry, like himself,
SCENE VI. The same.
I am weary, yea, my memory is tired.
How often hast thou waited at my cup,
mistress of him: sanctifies himself with's hand and
Anjou and Maine are given to the French,
He lives in fame that died in virtue's cause.
I will so. What's the matter?
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit,
At my misfortunes? can thy spirit wonder
Good fortune then!
Bless you, fair dame! I am not to you known,
Not ours, or not allow'd, what worst, as oft,
Wherefore she does, and swears she'll never stint,
but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies:
Your mother came to Sicily and did find
And to say so no more.
We say that Shore's wife hath a pretty foot,
O!
Clarence, excuse me to the king my brother,
Thou wilt revolt, and fly to him, I fear.
which is called true is so like an old tale, that
That draw his knives i' the war. Well, I will find him
SCENE IV. The Shepherd's cottage.
Thanks, sir, all the rest is mute.
Two Sentinels on guard.
Why do you bend such solemn brows on me?
We, as the spring of all, shall pay for all.
to dine and sup with water and bran, I dare not for
Where I arrive, and my approach be shunn'd,
very uncleanly flux of a cat. Mend the instance, shepherd.
Were you made the messenger?
Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,
Enter a Messenger
I nothing know where she remains, why gone,
You've said, sir. We looked not for Mark Antony
O, true-bred!
And now changed to 'The Beggar and the King.'
Look you, I'll go pray.
Of his bright passage to the occident.
May well abate the over-merry spleen
A thousand oaths, an ocean of his tears
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
His burthenous taxations notwithstanding,
I do beseech you, let it be his fault,
Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting.
I was.
fairly done, no matter.
Exit
By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think
Further this act of grace: and from this hour
Inform her full of my particular fear,
I do confess much of the hearing it but little of
Muster your wits, stand in your own defence,
Cried 'Sisters! sisters! Shame of ladies! sisters!
I will be bold with time and your attention:
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
With cheques as flatteries,--when they are seen abused.
How much I have disabled mine estate,
Widow, we will consider of your suit,
Proceeded to you, therefore take your honours.
Together with my brave Egyptians all,
And takest it all for jest.
And faintly through a rusty beaver peeps:
And in the temple of great Jupiter
By shameful murder of a guiltless king
What's to be thought of him? does the rumour hold
Come, come, you are well understood to be a
To entertain the lag-end of my life
Ay, millstones, as be lesson'd us to weep.
All for my master's sake, Lucentio.
It is a basilisk unto mine eye,
Posthumus, thy head, which now is growing upon thy
That like events may ne'er it ruinate.
Here, here, here's an excellent place, here we may
What exploit's in hand? where sups he to-night?
Enter the Guard, rushing in
Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit.
What, durst not tempt him!
She would not hold out enemy for ever,
Sleeping neglection doth betray to loss
The time, the place, the torture: O, enforce it!
It cannot be, thou dost but say 'tis so:
Slice, I say! pauca, pauca: slice! that's my humour.
Enter GLOUCESTER, brought in by two or three
With golden cherubins is fretted: her andirons--
So ridest thou triumphing in my woe.
Which I can call but now, I have heard strange news.
And see already how he doth begin
To see great Hercules whipping a gig,
Poor Desdemona! I am glad thy father's dead:
That sun, I pray, may never set! I have told him
To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead:
And, not reform'd, may prove pernicious.
presence, even the presence of Lord Mortimer, that I
thy master's father, Vincentio?
You are betroth'd both to a maid and man.
Nay, by the mass, that he did not, he beat him most
A cur can lend three thousand ducats?' Or
Valentine's page, and sent, I think, from Proteus.
A delicate odour.
with the duke, what his valour, honesty, and
As I do now: for whiles this honest fool
Keep leets and law-days and in session sit
My Lord Bassanio gave his ring away
ye, or ise try whether your costard or my ballow be
I prithee, hear me speak.
And when he please to make commotion,
Shall seize one half his goods, the other half
Let the rest go.
Enter HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, and Ladies
As from a blushing handmaid, to his highness,
Stars, stars,
No more, the text is foolish.
By this time from their fixed beds of lime
a youth is not for me, and he that is less than a
Enobarbus, Antony
To this detested groom.
and there is also another device in my prain, which
Are these thy ministers? what are they call'd?
Lord Longaville is one.
We are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us,
Enter BEATRICE
and happiness takes his leave.
The buckles on his breast, reneges all temper,
Since that the trade and profit of the city
Is he not honest?
For that I saw the tyrant's power a-foot:
Methinks thou speak'st not well.
Whither straight I'll lead you.
What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee?
From change of fortune. Why this spade? this place?
Yes, madam: yet I cannot choose but laugh,
Heavens make our presence and our practises
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
For every inch of woman in the world,
And I am sick when I look not on you.
Were not erected by their hands from whom
Is shiny, and they say we shall embattle
bed, give him promise of satisfaction. I will
Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
The breath is gone whereof this praise is made:
And keep the Frenchmen in allegiance.
Would I were young for your sake, Mistress Anne!
I charge thee, invite them all: let in the tide
Dead, I think. Help, uncle!
though this knave came something saucily into the
Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy
When care, mistrust, and treason waits on him.
Prepare you, generals:
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
Is at the nuptial of his son a guest
See how my sword weeps for the poor king's death!
And stand indebted, over and above,
Till you hear further from me.
O, let me view his visage, being dead,
Before they think of us.
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
And pull'd the law upon you.
Forthwith a power of English shall we levy,
And then came Pyramus.
Is not thy coming for my other hand?
Send for your ring, I will return it home,
As roughly as my modesty would let me.
In dreadful trial of our kingdom's king!
Now, sweet lord,
And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring
Is not the causer of the timeless deaths
I'll visit you.
Why, one that rode to's execution, man,
I rather will subject me to the malice
conclusion, Pish! But, sir, be you ruled by me: I
No sun shall ever usher forth mine honours,
place till some certain shot be paid and the hostess
Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish.
sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar, and, as
Will issue out again and bid us battle:
What is the remedy?
He gave me a jewel th' other day, and now he has
The nimble spirits in the arteries,
At this hour reigning there.
Or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood.
When, lo! to interrupt my purposed rest,
O Priam, yield not to him!
To a prepared place in the choir, fell off
Thou pitied'st Rutland, I will pity thee.
Will you go on? I pray.
The four strangers seek for you, madam, to take
Exit
The worthy knight of Troy.
What's your will?
And all the household servants fled with him
Then love-devouring death do what he dare,
his chin: indeed, she has a marvellous white hand, I
Who painfully with much expedient march
Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh.
I warrant it is: and thy head stands so tickle on
Could speak this with as free a soul as I do!
Re-enter one with the heads
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
protector,
I partly guess, for I have loved ere now.
the Goodwins, I think they call the place, a very
A little time, my lord, will kill that grief.
What's that to me? my father was no traitor:
And I mine. I remember, when I was in love I broke
request, I can tell you.
Although thy breath be rude.
Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight
Another dowry to another daughter,
In choosing for yourself, you show'd your judgment,
As you from crimes would pardon'd be,
Why, are ye mad? or know ye not, in Rome
Did Cicero say any thing?
SCENE II. A Street.
The crying babe controll'd with this discourse:
Made me acquainted with a weighty cause
Exit
Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.
Then, I prithee, be merry, thy wit shall ne'er go
This is my birth-day, as this very day
Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
My mildness hath allay'd their swelling griefs,
No, Bolingbroke: if ever I were traitor,
wooing, wedding, and repenting, is as a Scotch jig,
I snatch'd one half out of the jaws of death,
Hideth my heart. So, let me hear you speak.
For to supply the places at the table,
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
There, take it, and much thanks for my good cheer.
true, that thou art beauteous, truth itself, that
Nay, that's most fix'd.
I will survey the inscriptions back again.
To swearing and stern looks, diffused attire
shepherd. Put not yourself into amazement how these
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
Now piercing to my soul. O, thus she stood,
Like a right gipsy, hath, at fast and loose,
By wicked powers.
Here comes himself to guide you.
Enter RATCLIFF
That things might change or cease, tears his white hair,
Have an immediate freedom of repeal.
companion that you give offence to.
Exeunt GRIFFITH and Messenger
Take me this work out.
Nothing so strong and fortunate as I.
Re-enter AUTOLYCUS
Your creatures, who by you have been restored:
And, as I am a gentleman, I'll give thee
nothing to a man.
Stay, go, do what you will, the like do I,
there should be terrors in him that he should not
Good boy, tell him I come.
With sorrow snares relenting passengers,
I think not so, my lord.
Let's have that, good sir.
[Aside]  Must thou needs stand for a villain in
A pestilence on him! now will he be mocking:
'em. I'll scratch your heads: you must be seeing
How durst you, villains, bring it from the dresser,
Then, good my lord, teach your cousin to consent winking.
As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney,
enough. Who can speak broader than he that has no
wit and it will out at the casement, shut that and
Never in your life, I think, unless you see canary
How! have they denied him?
something: where did I leave?
And put on sullen black incontinent:
all's done.
No, my good lord, but Pluto sends you word,
Good friends, go in, and taste some wine with me,
shepherd deliver the manner how he found it:
I have done, i' faith.
In murders and in outrage, boldly here,
I went to her, Master Brook, as you see, like a poor
Patience once more, whiles our compact is urged:
Sennet. Enter KING RICHARD III, in pomp, crowned, BUCKINGHAM, CATESBY, a page, and others
Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done 't:
The immortal Jove's dead clamours counterfeit,
All merciless proceeding by these French
Enter AUTOLYCUS and a Gentleman
She hath but one for herself, to desire that were a shame.
When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
For ever and a day.
SCENE II. The palace.
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
The greater cantle of the world is lost
Who I myself struck down, and thence it is,
What tributaries follow him to Rome,
Shall outstrike thought: but thought will do't, I feel.
As my mother was, the first hour I was born.
Sir, my liege,
When I have found it. The count he wooes your daughter,
scourged by the sequent effects: love cools,
Caesar's, to him I say, that Brutus' love to Caesar
Didst not thou share? hadst thou not fifteen pence?
And let thy Suffolk take his heavy leave.
And, though we leave it with a root, thus hack'd,
Re-enter HUBERT
But you have all the vantage of her wrong.
To lie in cold obstruction and to rot,
Upon what bargain do you give it me?
God help the wicked! if to be old and merry be a
Welcome, Lord Somerset. What news from France?
Unless I prove false traitor to myself.
Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.
world shall know it: though you have put me into
Thus comes the English with full power upon us,
Dare not relate.
Show scarce so gross as beetles: half way down
The levied succors that should lend him aid,
See you, my princes, and my noble peers,
For it is unpeopled? No:
[Within]  Who's there? what, ho!
But to make open proclamation:
senseless and fit man for the constable of the
Exit
I gave her such a one, 'twas my first gift.
Should have borne men, and expectation fainted,
do solicit you in that kind, you know your answer.
from court and is less frequent to his princely
Will apprehend you as his enemy.
Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious.
But who comes in such haste in riding-robes?
No weapons, sir. There comes my master, Master
For France, for France, for it is more than need.
So thou mayst say, the king lies by a beggar, if a
What is't, my lord? we will.
You should not have the eminence of him,
May not an ass know when the cart
The other, when she has obtain'd your eye,
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
And doctors learn'd: first I began in private
That last is Biron, the merry madcap lord:
Heaven bless him! Farewell, Bertram.
The yielding of her up?
And by that music let us all embrace,
O, belike his majesty hath some intent
Of healths five-fathom deep, and then anon
To take advantage of the absent time
But, by the forge that stithied Mars his helm,
It may not be, good madam, pardon me.
To hazard life and rescue you from him
You make my bonds still greater.
The crown imperial, lilies of all kinds,
Are you meditating on virginity?
of it, and the modesty of it, to be otherwise.
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, the purse borne before him,  certain of the Guard, and two Secretaries with  papers. CARDINAL WOLSEY in his passage fixeth his  eye on BUCKINGHAM, and BUCKINGHAM on him, both full of disdain
Speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue,
Lose the tide, and the voyage, and the master, and
And now about the cauldron sing,
ACT II
Would thou wert clean enough to spit upon!
Do this expediently and turn him going.
Rapine and Murder, you are welcome too.
And, to speak truth, thou deservest no less. This
Return him here again. Go with him, provost.
Would he were fatter! But I fear him not:
Your lady mother is coming to your chamber:
The gods grant them true!
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
I will not marry yet, and, when I do, I swear,
Hath Leonato any son, my lord?
I will have none on't: we shall lose our time,
What's that?
shall our poor city find: and all this is long of
Lord Timon's?
Is this the prince? is this the prince's brother?
Exit
I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys.
Are you so desperate grown, to threat your friends?
A second hope, as fairly built as Hector.
I know him: a' was a botcher's 'prentice in Paris,
unthought of and speak out of my injury.
But, for all this, my honest-natured friends,
And ring is yours, if not, the foul opinion
Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
A beggar begs that never begg'd before.
Alarums to the battle. Enter WARWICK
for there are liars and swearers enow to beat
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, with a letter
And you, forsooth, had the good duke to keep:
The measure then of one is easily told.
No, at a word, madam, indeed, I must not. I wish
I know you two are rival enemies:
This is the cardinal's doing, the king-cardinal:
Good cousins both, of York and Somerset,
Strong and fasten'd villain
Thy broken faith hath made a prey for worms.
My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
since the death of Hermione, visited that removed
She embraces him.
Is it no more to be your daughter than
SCENE III. The same.
Like one that comes here to besiege his court,
coach! Good night, ladies, good night, sweet ladies,
His sword did ne'er leave striking in the field.
I pant for life: some good I mean to do,
A warrant for his execution.
Bid him farewell, commit him to the grave,
Why to give over, I pray you? is it a shame to get
Yet, to recover them, would lose my life.
Therefore, Timon,--
Whiles he was hastening, in the chase, it seems,
So please you, save the thanks this prince expects:
Therefore devise with me how we may fly,
How much low peasantry would then be glean'd
But burning fatal to the Talbotites!
Apparitions vanish
[Aside]  I know not what to say, my title's weak.--
But, soft! my door is lock'd. Go bid them let us in.
Let her have your voices.
And yet no matter: why should we go in?
And after me, I know, the rout is coming.
me: hush, hush!
Then pause not, for the present time's so sick,
Here comes his grace in person. My noble uncle!
Ourselves we do remember, sir, by you,
To the dark house and the detested wife.
So I do, madonna, but to read his right wits is to
There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.
Cannot be!
And bite thy tongue, that slanders him with cowardice
My lord, you are unjust, and, more than so,
That do outface it with their semblances.
Where thou and I henceforth may never meet.
Hath he a sister?
I begin to love him for this.
Then why should he despair that knows to court it
Poor house, that keep'st thyself!
And happy newness, that intends old right.
Supplied with worthy men! plant love among 's!
I am come to survey the Tower this day:
And yet I would it were to give again.
command, I have turned away my other guests: they
Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness
Let's kiss and part, for we have much to do.
Exeunt
the bed she hath contaminated.
Under whose government come they along?
And can digest as much: make no compare
Where in the purlieus of this forest stands
Away, my lord! you are slow, for shame, away!
I never heard such a drawling, affecting rogue.
And didst in signs again parley with sin,
Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn,
Caesar and Antony shall well greet together:
See, not a man in private conference
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
Enter four or five Players
I may say so, when I please.
Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best
Step forth mine advocate, at your request
That any purblind eye may find it out.
To Agamemnon: go we to him straight.
To weep that you live as ye do makes pity in your
And now ingratitude makes it worse than stealth.
Have I since your departure had, my lords.
So she may live unscarr'd of bleeding slaughter,
SCENE II. A room in FORD'S house.
Why, 'tis this naming of him does him harm.
O'ertopping woman's power. Madam, you do me wrong:
Come, I'll to my chamber. Would there had been some
Call'd Roderigo.
I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
Did scowl on gentle Richard, no man cried 'God save him!'
the dukes he values most, for equalities are so
And teach lavoltas high and swift corantos,
[Aside to SEBASTIAN]  I am right glad that he's so
Familiar in his mouth as household words
Nor either cares for him.
Subdued me to her rate: she got the ring,
And give you to the gods.
the night than to fern-seed for your walking invisible.
Of its own kind, all foison, all abundance,
'Tis I that made thy widows: many an heir
That magical word of war, we have effected,
tell-tale nor no breed-bate: his worst fault is,
Beweep this cause again, I'll pluck ye out,
That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes.
Nay, a' rubs himself with civet: can you smell him
And tumble me into some loathsome pit,
One that ne'er dream'd a joy beyond his pleasure,
I see thy fury: if I longer stay,
Will touch us all too near, if God prevent not.
It shall go hard if Cambio go without her.
Go to a gossips' feast and go with me,
Search every acre in the high-grown field,
And, when I am forgotten, as I shall be,
Supposing it a thing impossible,
To punish this offence in other faults:
God ha' mercy on his soul!
O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
Be mad and merry, or go hang yourselves:
you call in question the continuance of his love:
Then thus I thump it down.
No more evasion:
to play it in?
But dust was thrown upon his sacred head:
I would not have believed him,--no tongue but Hubert's.
I was the more deceived.
a charitable office.
You, that have so fair parts of woman on you,
His son was but a ward two years ago.
Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant
That might your nature, honour and exception
Revel and feast it at my house to-day,
Only deserve my love by loving him,
During his power, go sleep.
My lord. Griffith, farewell. Nay, Patience,
If to reprove you for this suit of yours,
concerning your marriage.
One of these is true:
SCENE II. France. Before Rouen.
By paved fountain or by rushy brook,
Exeunt
And none serve with him but constrained things
Drives him beyond the bounds of patience.
May readily be stopp'd.
ne'er been born!
O, very mad, exceeding mad, in love too:
Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
My good lord archbishop, I'm very sorry
Motion and breath left out.
To do the office for thee of revenge,
But rather, moody-mad and desperate stags,
Do not, porpentine, do not: my fingers itch.
gone both ways.
Exit CRANMER
chamber-window, bids me a thousand times good
The knowledge of your mistress home, I grant
But lay down our proportions to defend
I do believe thee:
Beholding him, plucks comfort from his looks:
Faith, gentlemen, now I play a merchant's part,
promise him an excellent piece.
To foster it, nor ever to preserve.
Did you yet ever see Baptista's daughter?
And all that shall succeed: Saba was never
Against the steep uprising of the hill?
For death-like dragons here affright thee hard:
Exit Gentleman
[Reads]  'Thou comest to the lady Olivia, and in my
Which heaven and fortune still rewards with plagues.
If Warwick knew in what estate he stands,
What yesternight our council did decree
think I'll fear thee as I fear thy father? nay, an
War, death, or sickness did lay siege to it,
That cravens my weak hand. Come, here's my heart.
The tune of Imogen!
Out, sword, and wound
And as the air blows it to me again,
such difference betwixt their two estates, Love no
He water'd his new plants with dews of flattery,
O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender
Stray'd his affection in unlawful love?
I lead espoused my bride along with me.
Slander to the state! Away with him to prison!
For they have pardons, being ask'd, as free
sir, an ill-favoured thing, sir, but mine own, a poor
You say that Edward is your brother's son:
By that which he will utter?
Nay, but you will?
eat, go to, follow.
Nurse calls within
Shall be the general's fault, though he perform
But is it true? or else is it your pleasure,
In their nativity all truth appears.
Peace, silence! Brutus speaks.
Shall e'er have power upon thee.' Then fly,
And over the chair of state, where now he sits,
Than for that angel knowledge you can say,
A style for-challengers, why, she defies me,
Master-Gunner	But now thou shalt not. Be thou ruled by me:
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
Vilely bound up? What would he say? Or how
To-night, say I.
Enter BORACHIO
This is the last: so we will home to Rome,
A noble duke, in nature as in name.
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
Content, content.
Presents well worthy Rome's imperial lord:
He will return, and hope I may that she,
Slink all away, leave their false vows with him,
I would you had never seen him!
Was't so?
More shall they speak, for now I am bent to know,
For two and twenty sons I never wept,
Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never
By him imprinted and within his power
hast feigned him a worthy fellow.
But half an hour!
Thus men may grow wiser every day: it is the first
O, he is old and blushes not at death.
Say now, whose suit is he arrested at?
Allows itself to any thing.
At Bristol I expect my soldiers,
He smiled and said 'The better for our purpose.'
The better to beguile. This is for all:
It is for you we speak, not for ourselves:
Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
fells, you know, are greasy.
SCENE II. A public place.
Golden lads and girls all must,
If I know you well,
Of very ill manner, he'll speak with you, will you or no.
They are reformed, civil, full of good
Gentle Octavia,
How now! is Jack Cade slain?
Observed his courtship to the common people,
You train me to offend you, get you in:
Exit PISANIO
His arms are only to remove from thee
And then we shall repent each drop of blood
[Aside to PAROLLES]  Is she gone to the king?
hath been since an ape-bearer, then a
have not seen these two days.
Farewell: yet, soft! Hector! take my leave:
Which cannot in their huge and proper life
Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER in Cardinal's habit, a Legate and two Ambassadors
If Caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper
tell thee, I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.
To velvet-guards and Sunday-citizens.
My father's wit and my mother's tongue, assist me!
Cleomenes and Dion, whom you know
Sir Thomas,
How long hath he been there?
thy fee is a thousand ducats.
Thy will by my performance shall be served:
I would remove these tedious stumbling-blocks
Your sad tires in a mile-a.
All out of work and cold for action!
I could have given less matter
Unpruned dies, her hedges even-pleach'd,
And when the lion fawns upon the lamb,
Proceeded further, cut me off the heads
Apparel vice like virtue's harbinger,
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF MOROCCO  and his train, PORTIA, NERISSA, and others attending
I beg the ancient privilege of Athens,
O, do not do your cousin such a wrong.
The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks,
make you to-day a squire of low degree. I pray you,
In general synod 'take away her power,
But love, dear love, and our aged father's right:
Commit a thing so monstrous, to dismantle
And that the trunk may be discharged of breath
And shall I stand, and thou sit in my throne?
Shall raise such artificial sprites
Which of the two was daughter of the duke
Enter a Messenger
Pulcher.
Now, where's my wife?
Enter, below, DIOMEDES
In most uneven and distracted manner. His actions
And, having both together heaved it up,
Fool's play, by heaven, Hector.
I would, while it was smiling in my face,
Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it.
beseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me:
But say that he or we, as neither have,
Stays but the summons of the appellant's trumpet.
Why, how couldst thou know these men in Kendal
That makes the senate ugly.
Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
I'll leave you: pray you, speak to 'em, I pray you,
Give me audience, good madam.
fellowship in thee, nor thou camest not of the blood
Reads
To bear me company and go with me:
A light condition in a beauty dark.
And so ingrateful, you deny me that.
To hear themselves remember'd.
Why, what a brood of traitors have we here!
Is it not lawful, an please your majesty, to tell
Is poison to thy stomach.
Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger,
Fears, and despairs, and all these for his marriage:
Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother,
Unless thou say 'Prince Pericles is dead.'
His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams:
Besides, he says there are two councils held,
As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself
Roderigo! no:--yes, sure: O heaven! Roderigo.
How now, noble Pompey! What, at the wheels of
His royal self in judgment comes to hear
O me, my heart, my rising heart! but, down!
Kill Claudio.
Pointing to the Attendant who carries off LEPIDUS
cry you mercy: I thought your honour had already been
Be such a gosling to obey instinct, but stand,
Sweet ladies, will it please you sit? Sir Harry,
Edward, kneel down.
Which, to betray, dost, with thine angel's face,
The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me.
All the contagion of the south light on you,
of natures: she, having the truth of honour in her,
Come, come, to the purpose: did he love this woman?
SCENE III. The same. Before the palace.
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
Do you love me?
Thus time we waste, and longest leagues make short,
Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
Enter POMPEY, MENECRATES, and MENAS, in warlike manner
let them coin his nose, let them coin his cheeks:
It is Cassandra.
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter WARWICK, the Mayor of Coventry, two Messengers, and others upon the walls
To it, boy! Marcus, loose when I bid.
Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows,
die. I have letters that my son will be here
A woman of quick sense.
I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
O, then my best blood turn
Thou art the first knave that e'er madest a duke.
Thou art, great lord, my father's sister's son,
That box I gave you was not thought by me
Until some half-hour past, when I was arm'd:
Indeed, he should be a footman by the garments he
Let me unseal the letter.
Exit
They must either,
in a flint, which will not show without knocking.
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO
Peace, peace! you durst not so have tempted him.
Enter LADY MACBETH
And to preserve my sovereign from his foe,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
But then I sigh, and, with a piece of scripture,
would not, as they term it, praise her: but I would
Faith, nothing, but has left me here behind, to
When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet,
roaring of a lion's whelp.
not care, but to be Menelaus, I would conspire
Nor tent to bottom that. But speak.
Enjoy mine own, the country Maine and Anjou,
We bend to that the working of the heart,
Truly, sir, I am a poor fellow that would live.
happy hours are done and past, and his estate
revolutions: these are begot in the ventricle of
No, by this hand.
What masque? what music? How shall we beguile
Give me your hand and let me feel your pulse.
To join with Mortimer, ha?
Puts off his helmet and hangs his shield behind him
preposterous estate as we are.
At thy service.
Lean famine, quartering steel, and climbing fire,
a fair end.
I would invent as bitter-searching terms,
Speak out thy sorrows which thou bring'st in haste,
your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You must wear
Now here's another discontented paper,
It had been so with us, had we been there:
And throw't against the wind. To the market-place!
your son: give me your blessing: truth will come
Was my beloved in Rome: yet thou behold'st!
Make thee beg pardon for thy passed speech,
I have well approved it, sir. I drunk!
Exit
The gods forbid!
sayest thou that house is dark?
I look'd her in the face, and saw her led
Of angry eyes, not comforted to live,
Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
O, these encounterers, so glib of tongue,
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
As high as word, my deed shall match thy meed.
The motley fool thus moral on the time,
Then at my lodging, an it like you:
Yet, I think, we are not brought so low,
Exit
That look too lofty in our commonwealth:
Admit him entrance, Griffith: but this fellow
Should we be silent and not speak, our raiment
I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night,
[Aside to PROSPERO]  Sir, all this service
Of their dispatch.
not but to die a fair death for all this, if I
You put sharp weapons in a madman's hands.
drawn, monster, in good sooth!
Well, I say no: and therefore for assurance
Towards Phoebus' lodging: such a wagoner
If you'll be patient, I'll no more be mad,
Sir,
No, no, my lord,
To part the glories of this happy day.
[Sings]
And hear him mock the Frenchman. But, heavens know,
Were better than a churlish turf of France.
What, is it a time to jest and dally now?
Infirmity doth still neglect all office
Shows a ring
In this self-place where now we mean to stand.
That they may have their wages duly paid 'em,
Exeunt Citizens
Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land,
Pauca verba, Sir John, goot worts.
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, REIGNIER, and others
To reave the orphan of his patrimony,
you, and you shall be married to-morrow.
Whiles we are suitors to their throne, decays
What watch the king keeps to maintain the peace,
SCENE IV. Paris. The KING's palace.
I rather of his absence make this use:
be a jewel that I have purchased at an infinite
Are gone with him towards Dover, where they boast
will do, let her remain, but I'll never give o'er.
that, unless a man were cursed, I cannot tell what
My wife is slippery? If thou wilt confess,
think this was well counterfeited! I pray you, tell
If you forsake the offer of their love.
How this dead queen re-lives?
An ass's nole I fixed on his head:
ANTIPHOLUS
Cold news, Lord Somerset: but God's will be done!
replenished, he is only an animal, only sensible in
Against my child, my daughter Hermia.
Against my near'st of life: and though I could
Taffeta phrases, silken terms precise,
by this hand, I'll turn my mercy out o' doors
And bids thee christen it with thy dagger's point.
Hath any well-advised friend proclaim'd
ACT V
Since I received command to do this business
But to be safely thus.--Our fears in Banquo
then, death, death!
The chimney
In the cathedral church of Westminster,
Is the Duke of Exeter safe?
Re-enter BOULT with MARINA
advertisement to a proper maid in Florence, one
Shaking the bloody darts as he his bells.
The discontents repair, and men's reports
belly's as cold as if I had swallowed snowballs for
Farewell, for I must leave you:
For I would commune with you of such things
But that's no matter, let him kill one first,
No, by my life and soul!
Let's yet be fellows, let's shake our heads, and say,
Madam, my thanks and prayers.
Kisses him
Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods
But taken and impounded as a stray
Nor what is mine shall never do thee good:
If thou and nature can so gently part,
With joy he will embrace you, for he's honourable
His reasons with his body.
And mar men's spurring. Crack the lawyer's voice,
As strongly as the conscience does within,
So we be rid of them, do with 'em what thou wilt.
Of our dear souls. Meantime, sweet sister,
Above yon busky hill! the day looks pale
mum, you are he: graces will appear, and there's an
devil guide his cudgel afterwards!
If you have any justice, any pity,
And at thy mercy shalt they stoop and kneel,
Not a penny. I have been content, sir, you should
is flat knavery, to take upon you another man's name.
Money and order for their furniture.
I, with a troop of Florentines, will suddenly
With every thing that pretty is,
and admiring the nothing of it. So that in this
What humble suit attends thy answer there:
Thorough the streets of Rome?
Exeunt Wife, Beadle, Mayor,  and c
Signior Baptista, shall I lead the way?
Did worthily perform, and I must use you
Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear:
De arm, madame.
Patience, good lady! comfort, gentle Constance!
You speak a language that I understand not:
Something wicked this way comes.
Methought you said
according to Fates and Destinies and such odd
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
It beckons you to go away with it,
Heigh-ho! an it be not four by the day, I'll be
Enter VALENTINE and PROTEUS
us, ha, ha?
For I myself have many tears to wash
For saying so, there's gold:
Do so, good mine host.
[To KING CLAUDIUS]  O, ho! do you mark that?
I would I had any drum of the enemy's: I would swear
appear foul! takes virtuous copies to be wicked,
More worth than any man, men, that she is
I moralize two meanings in one word.
'To Julia.' Say, from whom?
Aunchient Pistol, I do partly understand your meaning.
Doth, like a miser, spoil his coat with scanting
The third of the five vowels, if you repeat them, or
And let the unscarr'd braggarts of the war
Doth he hear it? no. 'Tis insensible, then. Yea,
And Hippolyta.
No, no, and therefore we'll have his head.
Alas, sir, I am but a poor petitioner of our whole township.
chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
Nor heel the high lavolt, nor sweeten talk,
Flourish. Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK, with other Lords, and Attendants
I think the boy hath grace in him, he blushes.
Another hit, what say you?
Enlink'd to waste and desolation?
The gracious mark o' the land, you have obscured
To make this bitter to thee.
Thy deed, inhuman and unnatural,
that Worthy's thumb: he is not so big as the end of his club.
Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England
Something about, a little from the right,
And give me mine again.
Which the commission of thy years and art
To knock out an honest Athenian's brains.
Beats TRINCULO
That's even as fair as--at hand, quoth the
by mine honour,
example, that so terrible shows in the wreck of
Embrace and love this man.
May that ground gape and swallow me alive,
it hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood,
Their lips were four red roses on a stalk,
Is't not a goodly presence?
Good: I will expect you.
O good Iago,
Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
A noise within, 'Down with the tawny-coats!'
Collect them all together at my tent:
Which ne'er came from the lungs, but even thus--
Come, bring us, bring us where he is.
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
To the hot passion of distemper'd blood
world before he was sent for, yet was his mother
Enter a Lady
Return with welcome home from banishment.
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, attended, QUEEN ELIZABETH, PEMBROKE, STAFFORD, HASTINGS, and others
What, you notorious villain, didst thou never see
Now counterfeit to swoon, why now fall down,
The self-same way with more advised watch,
That even now he cries aloud for him.
Madam, we will attend your grace.
Not so. Adieu.
And makes himself an artificial night:
Ay, say you so? the gates shall then be open'd.
ACT I
With your derision! none of noble sort
And speak to him in many sorts of music
For no less spoil than glory,--
To give my hand opposed against my heart
SCENE III. The Council-Chamber.
A wretched soul, bruised with adversity,
Gelidus timor occupat artus it is thee I fear.
What's the cause?
You have no judgment, niece: Helen
Ratcliff, my lord, 'tis I. The early village-cock
Mine eyes are not o' the best: I'll tell you straight.
And strokes death to her.
Haply I do.
The apprehension of his present portance,
warrant. Why, this hits right, I dreamt of a silver
speak. Sweet, say on.
come within my doors! Marry, hang you! She's born
Enter BASSANIO, with LEONARDO and other followers
Yet, Marcius, that was much. Your hand: most welcome!
Even so great men great losses should endure.
So then the Volsces stand but as at first,
And it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!
Or at their chamber-door I'll beat the drum
Enough: my soul shall then be satisfied.
Not my virginity yet [         ]
And he's composed of harshness. I must remove
ACT I
What are they that do play it?
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
And tell me what thou notest about the field.
Montano and myself being in speech,
As thou hast done with me:--What, Jessica!--
What, have you lost your wits?
estimation of them, 'tis a condition they account
To rive their dangerous artillery
Phebe did write it.
Iago is most honest.
Why am I a fool?
I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the
Till I torment thee for this injury.
Well of his wealth, but of himself, so so.
How I would make him fawn and beg and seek
And kiss'd her lips with such a clamorous smack
O Ned, sweet Ned! speak to thy mother, boy!
Take thou that too, with multiplying bans!
Under the canopy.
Sir Thomas Lovel and Lord Marquis Dorset,
Snatch at his master that doth tarre him on.
I'll fetch the general's surgeon.
sooth, thou wast in very gracious fooling last
Sing willow, willow, willow,
I'll first direct my men what they shall do with the
And that same sword-and-buckler Prince of Wales,
Close by the battle, ditch'd, and wall'd with turf,
Bloody thou art, bloody will be thy end,
And you an officer fit for the place.
Caesar, for he swounded and fell down at it: and
Made me a looker on here in Vienna,
And they shall find dear deer of us, my friends.
do you think of the trade, Pompey? is it a lawful trade?
My wedded lord, I ne'er shall see again,
In this our pinching cave, shall we discourse
Setting your scorns and your mislike aside,
You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby. Come,
And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither:
Or lose our ventures.
Exit Ghost
Enter a Servant
And every thing is left at six and seven.
The remnant northward, lying off from Trent.
My gracious lord, entreat him, speak him fair.
So to be valiant is no praise at all.
GLOUCESTER and CLARENCE retire
Between whose endless jar justice resides,
like it very well, but in respect that it is
stark spoiled with the staggers, begnawn with the
They say he is a very man per se,
Upon what cause?
My daughter! what of her? Renew thy strength:
Alas, sir, be patient. What say you sir? I am
Therefore no no, for I resign to thee.
The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
the dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly
Enter a Post
Peace, sirrah!
And though the mourning brow of progeny
And you in love shall not deny me this.
O, stop there a little!
addition in French, Notre trescher fils Henri, Roi
Struck me, that thought to stay him, overboard,
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,
I cannot hope
And portance in my travels' history:
Some man or other must present Wall: and let him
crooked face at it. I can't say your worships have
Melodious birds sing madrigals--
If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations,
Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale
Jove knows what man thou mightst have made, but I,
see, it is already in snuff.
Of all our fortunes.
Thou mightst deserve, or they impose, this usage,
this Benedictus.
To be exalted with the threatening clouds:
Ay, with Cassio. Nay, had she been true,
after: a pestilent complete knave, and the woman
O, let their bodies follow, my dear liege,
THE SONG
the adventure, our crows shall fare the better
Bending their expedition toward Philippi.
When that this body did contain a spirit,
Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.
Yet, coming from him, that great medicine hath
Whose fortunes Rome's best citizens applaud!
perceive that a Jack guardant cannot office me from
By breaking through the foul and ugly mists
Thou villain Capulet,--Hold me not, let me go.
Oh! oh! groans out for ha! ha! ha!
Last in the field, and almost lords of it!
I had no judgment when to her I swore.
Are stored with corn to make your needy bread,
speak what I know.
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Tell me thou art my son Antipholus.
Out of the king's protection. This is my charge.
If this right hand would buy two hour's life,
Or close the wall up with our English dead.
In sharing that which you have pill'd from me!
To lose itself in a fog, where being three parts
'Twas I that gave the kingdom to thy brother.
But now I see our lances are but straws,
So is the dear'st o' the loss.
No more of that.
'The duke yet lives, that Henry shall depose,
You know the peril.
Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children,
If put upon you, make the judgment good
base wench. If drawing my sword against the humour
Whether it be through force of your report,
Sweet prince, let me go no farther to mine answer:
he is but a knight, is a'?
There's thy reward: be gone.
By one that looks on feeders?
If York have ill demean'd himself in France,
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
Will even weigh, and both as light as tales.
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
The soldier's virtue, rather makes choice of loss,
Where dwellest thou?
They all bustle about CORIOLANUS, crying
From giving aid which late I promised.
And with his varying childness cures in me
But dead they are, and devilish slave, by thee.
Well then, alone, since there's no remedy,
consent to you: if any man may, you may as soon as
Shall see their children kind.
Sweet, sweet, sweet poison for the age's tooth:
Even where his lustful eye or savage heart,
Bewray'd the faintness of my master's heart.
To burn this night with torches: know, my hearts,
That he would wed me, or else die my lover.
'M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.' Nay, but first, let
I wrote the letter that thy father found
Come, ho! and wake Diana with a hymn!
I shall recount hereafter, for this present,
Commend unto his lips thy favouring hand:
cuffs in the question.
Then let me go and hinder not my course
fair, there was good sport at his making, and the
I did, Sir Thomas: and left him at primero
And their true sovereign, whom they must obey?
the truth, I had as lief have the foppery of freedom
falls from bias of nature, there's father against
Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,
untied and every thing about you demonstrating a
the Jew and Antonio the merchant: we turned o'er
Show!
He had, my lord: and when he ran in here,
Let all the rest give place.
Thou mayst, thou shalt, I will not go with thee:
To give her the avaunt! it is a pity
He wonder'd that your lordship
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Nay, good lieutenant,--alas, gentlemen,--
My lord, my lord, the French have gathered head:
Procure me music ready when he wakes,
take heed, honest Gobbo, or, as aforesaid, 'honest
Even till that England, hedged in with the main,
Enter a Nobleman
[Kneeling]          I am down again:
Enter LUCIO
and this they con perfectly in the phrase of war,
Why do you speak to me? I never hurt you:
BISHOP
Thou ever young, fresh, loved and delicate wooer,
Come, other sorts offend as well as we.
That I should do what I abhor to name,
From princes into pages: all men's honours
If traffic do it, the gods do it.
At Lacedaemon and Byzantium
Let me, upon my knee, prevail in this.
SCENE V. Dunsinane. Within the castle.
yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime
For false forswearing and for murder too:
thy assailant is quick, skilful and deadly.
Yonder comes the troop.
hangman, for I know thou worshippest St. Nicholas
Bores through his castle wall, and farewell king!
What do I fear?  myself?  there's none else by:
How well my comfort is revived by this!
Do faithful homage and receive free honours:
Upon thy eye-balls murderous tyranny
And what does else want credit, come to me,
shake me up.
Hath my behavior given to your displeasure,
good nor harm: but he seeks their hate with greater
ACT III
Was to be gone from Athens, where we might,
We do instate and widow you withal,
Hath he born himself penitently in prison? how
Look to the boy.
know that of your mouth or of your lips, for divers
Therein illustrated: the honour of it
Where is my lord the king?
I thank your grace, the gift hath made me happy.
of them, two I am sure I have paid, two rogues
And think it no addition, nor my wish,
called the Reply Churlish. If again 'it was not
And if you break the ice and do this feat,
I have found great love amongst them. O my sweet,
Five hundred poor I have in yearly pay,
Have at thee, coward!
To those of mine in court: I'll stay at home
That should consume it, I have not the face
The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and
To change the course: he's full of alteration
If I did love you in my master's flame,
By favours several which they did bestow.
That dims the honour of this warlike isle!
Falstaff's a knave, a cuckoldly knave, here are his
And to survey his dead and earthly image,
with a paper: God give him grace to groan!
Not as death's dart, being laugh'd at, his
And interchangeably hurl down my gage
I have been in such a pickle since I
[Within]  O, good my lord, I would speak a word with you!
To fail in the disposing of those chances
Who governs here?
unweighed behavior hath this Flemish drunkard
But clay and clay differs in dignity,
Which the poor heart would fain deny, and dare not. Seyton!
No further service, doctor,
I have observed thee always for a towardly prompt
That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.
Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate,
Within an hour, and pacing through the forest,
You would keep from my heels and beware of an ass.
Do press among the popular throngs and puff
Exeunt
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars.
Can I do this, and cannot get a crown?
Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated,
As hard to leave as keep, whose top to climb
after my name, call them all Pandars, let all
We would have all such offenders so cut off: and we
What does he say of Brutus?
foul the clearness of our deservings, when of
Suppose the ambassador from the French comes back,
My lord, we have
Welcome home, Grumio!
The seal'd-up oracle, by the hand deliver'd
Among my wife and her confederates,
notice to such men of sort and suit as are to meet
Stick to your journal course: the breach of custom
That thus hath made me weep?
Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object
Methought that Gloucester stumbled, and, in falling,
forty pound apiece, and a seal-ring of my
Nor iron on his heel! I am ashamed
Enter CLOTEN
That men of your nobility and power
O sir, I do, and will repute you ever
In congregations, to yawn, be still and wonder,
Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly?
To hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair
Of this fair mansion, master of my servants,
Hath to it circumstantial branches, which
To make yourself a son out of my blood.
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at
And I in all unwillingness will go.
I was enforced to send it after him,
Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.
Forbear, and eat no more.
And as he is, to witness this is true.
Obey and be attentive. Canst thou remember
That hath to instrument this lower world
Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
But, with the first of all your chief affairs,
Are empty trunks o'erflourish'd by the devil.
A precious thing: I had it from the queen.
Not one to throw at a dog.
His love to Antony. But as for Caesar,
Valiant and virtuous, full of haughty courage,
Your use and counsel, we shall send for you.
Alas! dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours.
Exit
Good Hubert, Hubert, Hubert, throw thine eye
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
I shot his fellow of the self-same flight
And we must root him out. From your affairs
That thought abuses you.
He can command, lets it straight feel the spur,
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
It came to us, I do in justice charge thee,
Exeunt Messenger and certain Lords
As rain to water, or devil to his dam.
The Lord in heaven bless thee, noble Harry!
Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,
To save unscratch'd your city's threatened cheeks,
Topple down headlong.
To them for you.
tell you how.
Is still a dying horror!
The strong-ribb'd bark through liquid mountains cut,
My lord, your sorrow was too sore laid on,
From whom hast thou this great commission, France,
Your Rome about your ears.
the rooms of them that have bought out their
The crown of England, father, which is yours.
I sought the purchase of a glorious beauty.
To be exiled, and thrown
Gentlemen, content ye, I am resolved:
one need not lend to another, for, were your
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
The act of order to a peopled kingdom.
own fool's eyes peep.
The vow is made. Come, brother, take a head,
In cypress chests my arras counterpoints,
are but now cast in his mood, a punishment more in
Then learn to know him now, this is the duke.
times in the thought they were not fairies: and yet
Myself was from Verona banished
Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
which pitifully disaster the cheeks.
Ay, no, no, ay, for I must nothing be,
Every good hap to you that chances here:
That am a poor and humble subject to you?
Nay, 'twill be this hour ere I have done weeping,
Thanks, fortune, yet, that, after all my crosses,
As for her Greeks and Trojans suffer'd death.
And ready are the appellant and defendant,
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
Then, Richard Earl of Cambridge, there is yours,
A husband! a devil.
I come to talk of commonwealth affairs.
home: he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?
A virtuous maid, the daughter of a count
Of my obscured course, and shall find time
So far from sounding and discovery,
And she must not speak
of fourteen, I have known thee already.
It is my only suit,
Nor will not. Come, bring me unto my chance.
What, man?
Can witness with me that it is not so
Come, Jaquenetta, away!
Well, then I shall see thee again?
When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh,
'Tis south the city mills--bring me word thither
Why cloud they not their sights perpetually,
A league below the city, and from thence,
Young lords, beware! and should the empress know
the scale.
In the same pulpit whereto I am going,
Galling the gleaned land with hot assays,
Could not a worm, an adder, do so much?
'Faith, and I'll send him packing.
As Scythian Tomyris by Cyrus' death.
But nothing spake in warrant from himself.
Though thou the waters warp,
Now, in thy likeness, one more fool appear!
greediness would afflict thee, and oft thou shouldst
Isidore's Servant	         Your steward puts me off, my lord,
progression, hath miscarried. Trip and go, my
And dare avow her beauty and her worth
Fall not a tear, I say, one of them rates
For which, I hope, thou felt'st I was displeased.
Most dignifies the haver: if it be,
I'll tear her all to pieces.
Invited her to supper: she replied,
female,--which in the common is woman, which
Bring them before me.
have me? Put off your maiden blushes, avouch the
Lie every man holds dear, but the brave man
Sound drums and trumpets, and the king will fly.
Enter certain Romans, with spoils
hose? What did he when thou sawest him? What said
But even for want of that for which I am richer,
High wedlock then be honoured:
Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs,
Which Rome reputes to be a heinous sin,
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
Why, they stay at door, sir.
Thrust in between the paction of these kingdoms,
Ah, sirrah!
And so afflict our province. Yet once more
ACT V
The other is daughter to the banish'd duke,
Hooking both right and wrong to the appetite,
A bloody deed, and desperately dispatch'd!
A strong faith to conceal it.
The wolves have prey'd, and look, the gentle day,
Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life,
What are they that fly there?
shoeing-horn in a chain, hanging at his brother's
[Aside]  Amen, and make me die a good old man!
Yield him, who all thy human sons doth hate,
indiscreet an officer. Drunk? and speak parrot?
And let me have them very well perfumed
Her army is moved on.
And had no welcomes home: but he returns,
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
To gaze upon the secrets of the deep?
Let gallows gape for dog, let man go free
Have I not reason, think you, to look pale?
Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?
Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?
Let me not live to look upon your grace.
Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior,--
Come from country to be judged by you,
Right joyful of your reformation.
You understand me not that tell me so:
Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is,
I'll make you quiet. What, cheerly, my hearts!
Jove shield your husband from his hounds to-day!
Whom this beneath world doth embrace and hug
Loath to bid farewell, we take our leaves.
Having so swift and excellent a wit
To have the touches dearest prized.
To fall it on Gonzalo.
This is she--
Too late, good Diomed: call my guard, I prithee.
Do me but right, and you must all confess
To see my best friend ta'en before my face!
Let him that will a screech-owl aye be call'd,
That therefore only are reputed wise
SCENE II. The forest.
But she, more covetous, would have a chain.
There have I made my promise
curate and your sweet self are good at such
Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,
There to be crowned Richard's royal queen.
Love's thrice repured nectar? death, I fear me,
against us.
Whom with a crack'd heart I have sent to Rome,
No, by my troth, my lord.
Exit
First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!
That by their witchcraft thus have marked me.
And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law,
Having full scarce six thousand in his troop.
Flourish
fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus
And this shall all be buried by my death,
Now the good gods forbid
The least rub in your fortunes, fall away
He's coming.
'Ods pittikins! can it be six mile yet?--
Monsieur Parolles.
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
Sir, yonder is your place.
Thou, sapient sir, sit here. Now, you she foxes!
And call these foul offenders to their answers
Sweet love! sweet lines! sweet life!
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, FABIAN, and MARIA
of him: how he jets under his advanced plumes!
For husband shalt thou--
Though in Rome litter'd--not Romans--as they are not,
But as a property. And now, Octavius,
prostrate and grovel on the earth, John Southwell,
SCENE III. A street.
Bid them all home, he's gone, and we'll no further.
And the moon changes even as your mind.
None else of name and noble estimate.
Marcus, my brother! 'tis sad Titus calls.
Flattering myself, as if it were the Moor
Their very heart of hope.
Topas, do not think I am mad: they have laid me
SCENE V. The same. Before SHYLOCK'S house.
It is shaped, sir, like itself, and it is as broad
wisest. He shall taste of my bottle: if he have
This prophecy Merlin shall make, for I live before his time.
In faith, I do not: come hither once again.
I will have none so near else. Learn this, brother,
Is now transported, gentles, to Southampton,
Ay, marry, sir, now looks he like a king!
Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
Go to, I know you well enough.
If I do find it: well.
Exit
Your aery buildeth in our aery's nest.
Next time I'll keep my dreams unto myself,
A bridegroom say you? 'tis a groom indeed,
in some of your coats for two pence.
To stay you from election.
How much the quantity, the weight as much,
Is that Camillo was an honest man,
Why, this is just
ANTIPHOLUS
A calendar, a calendar! look in the almanac, find
Upon my back, to defend my belly, upon my wit, to
There is a prohibition so divine
Ay, forsooth.
man as Orlando?
Under thy own life's key: be cheque'd for silence,
Made to my father, while his blood was poor,
wears for his sake, and he, a marble to her tears,
A goodly person: he hath lost his fellows
Tale-porter, and five or six honest wives that were
Re-enter DUKE OF YORK, with KING RICHARD II, and Officers bearing the regalia
You either fear his humour or my negligence, that
And prey on garbage.
You know neither me, yourselves nor any thing. You
Lead, monster, we'll follow. I would I could see
One sorrow never comes but brings an heir,
So fare you well at once, for Brutus' tongue
They have all been touch'd and found base metal, for
You, that did void your rheum upon my beard
A false conclusion: I hate it as an unfilled can.
lying asleep.
I am, as thy general is.
At this encounter do so much admire
How or which way: 'tis sure they found some place
Would testify, to enrich mine inventory.
Spied a blossom passing fair
By silken, sly, insinuating Jacks?
'After my flame lacks oil, to be the snuff
But tread the stranger paths of banishment.
That he does weigh too light: my greatest grief.
In what I further shall intend to do,
She is a woman, therefore may be woo'd,
Turn our blown sails, eftsoons I'll tell thee why.
That fools should be so deep-contemplative,
By my halidom, I was fast asleep.
To melt in showers: thy grandsire loved thee well:
The lass I spoke of.
And where the worser is predominant,
When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed,
To quit me of them throughly.
Exit
Had thy brethren here, their lives and thine
The record of what injuries you did us,
Enter STEPHANO
My wayward husband hath a hundred times
'Boarding,' call you it? I'll be sure to keep him
And in thy sight to die, what were it else
The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is
He,
Which owe the crown that thou o'ermasterest?
so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' he morning. So, so, so.
To TAMORA
'Tis easy to't, and there I will attend
And each several chamber bless,
In God's name, what art thou?
What is the body when the head is off?
How now, fair maid?
Our enemies' pride: five times he hath return'd
she will find the error of her choice: she must
You have not call'd me so, nor have you cause.
Soliciting his wife: ay, that's the way
Enter LADY MACBETH, reading a letter
And they shall be immediately deliver'd.
Lend me your hands, to the next chamber bear her.
A plague upon them! wherefore should I curse them?
There is no music in the nightingale,
parties were met themselves, one of them thought but
Do you note
And when it hath the thing it hunteth most,
And use thou all the endeavour of a man
Therefore love moderately, long love doth so,
Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
Whispering
Cannot thy master sleep these tedious nights?
Which in the time of Henry named the Fifth
Whom thou, in terms so bloody and so dear,
Aside, aside, here is more matter for a hot brain:
Ay, but hark you, my friend, 'twas we that made up
Blessed fig's-end! the wine she drinks is made of
That my revengeful services may prove
To have it of my trust or for my sake.
Compare our faces and be judge yourself.
him, good heart.
I will no further chide you.
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
Would serve to scale another Hero's tower,
Ay, that you shall.
Ay, my lord.
That's as much as to say, bastard virtues, that,
Re-enter KATARINA
make known to you why I have done this. Come,
man, I think, that shall set them in present action.
Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out,
Thy warlike hand, thy mangled daughter here:
What was he that you followed with your sword? What
I understand you, sir, 'tis well begged.
Into the good thoughts of the world again,
I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' the
'Tis likely,
Pray you, who does the wolf love?
Away, away!
I have't in my nose too.
Do what you will, dishonour shall be humour.
And wish'd in silence that it were not his.
Rome and the righteous heavens be my judge,
See him deliver'd, Fabian, bring him hither.
Then here is a supplication for you. And when you
Forestall prescience, and esteem no act
I knew it for my bond.
Deformed, unfinish'd, sent before my time
I would have made them skip: I am old now,
Our troops set forth to-morrow: stay with us,
Re-enter QUEEN
If he will take it, so, if not, adieu,
My brother was too careless of his charge.
What good is this to England and himself!
They shall be no more than needful there, if they
I'ld give bay Curtal and his furniture,
Allaying both their fury and my passion
Well, seeing gentle words will not prevail,
The rather for I now must make you know
piece of tender air, and when from a stately cedar
dinner of friends.
And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world
We have, great Agamemnon, here in Troy
Ay, boy, grow ye so brave?
I'll bear your logs the while: pray, give me that,
Son, how now! how now, son! have you dispatched?
please his mother and to be partly proud, which he
An earl I am, and Suffolk am I call'd.
Commend me to my wife. I'll return consul,
Even with the vail and darking of the sun,
Go we to council. Let Achilles sleep:
I humbly set it at your will, but, for my mistress,
O, are you come, Iago? you have done well,
Lord, Lord! methought, what pain it was to drown!
He wrung Bassanio's hand, and so they parted.
O, I die, Horatio,
away. Wilt thou use thy wit?
And bid it pass?
Within her quarter and mine own precinct
Well pray you, father.
What moves Ajax thus to bay at him?
Perform what you command us.
Of these supposed-evils, to give me leave,
To the water side I must conduct your grace,
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
as great discreetly as we can.
As fire, air, water, earth, and heaven can make,
For bloody power to rush upon your peace.
May be he tells you true.
every man put himself into triumph, some to dance,
Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS following
To seek my uncle in the forest of Arden.
I know your favour, Lord Ulysses, well.
on mine honour, and so, I pray, go with us.
Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
O misery!
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,
What woman is this?
To take me to thee, as I was to him
To make this banquet, which I wish may prove
got! thou hast got more hair on thy chin than
You need not fear, lady, the having any of these
for the defence of a town, our general is excellent.
Now civil wounds are stopp'd, peace lives again:
Here, at your service. My lord approaches.
And as I find her, so am I affected.
Knowing aforehand of our merriment,
squarer now that will make a voyage with him to the devil?
Now all the youth of England are on fire,
He does deny him, in respect of his,
head worth a hat, or his chin worth a beard?
Enter a Messenger, hastily
Re-enter WORCESTER
None!
My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind,
Why, this it is, see, see!
Heaven forgive him too!
Go, some of you convey him to the Tower.
Prison, my lord!
I am glad 'tis night, you do not look on me,
Though Fortune, visible an enemy,
for running!
Even such a husband
Before sunrising, lest his son George fall
And cry myself awake? that's false to's bed, is it?
To fly the favours of so good a king,
Lead me from hence:
This creature's no such thing.
He was a man, take him for all in all,
No less beloved. The Roman emperor's letters,
Enter young YORK, HASTINGS, and the CARDINAL
Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand
Blush that the world goes well, who rather had,
Did represent my master's blushing cheeks,
Or I'll knock you o'er the mazzard.
They shall, Nerissa, but in such a habit,
drown or hang themselves, more than their even
But thou dost swear only to be forsworn,
Hear, nature, hear, dear goddess, hear!
ever was known in the commonwealth.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Nor yet Saint Philip's daughters, were like thee.
As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom he
The sly slow hours shall not determinate
I have no power to speak, sir.
O'erglanced the articles: pleaseth your grace
And therefore, as we hither came in peace,
And I will put that business in your bosoms,
boy that stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.
I'll fill these dogged spies with false reports:
Even pushes 'gainst our heart: the party tried
Lies rich in virtue and unmingled.
But since unwillingly, take them again.
If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
Charges she more than me?
Discover where thy mistress is at once,
Why, sir, is this such a piece of study? Now here
If I break faith, this word shall speak for me,
Most mighty duke, vouchsafe me speak a word:
Will it eat me?
Or bathe my dying honour in the blood
What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
And make a common of my serious hours.
There, take thy hire, and all the fiends of hell
were to put good meat into an unclean dish.
And not all love to see you, though so much
Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.
I have a servant comes with me along,
Thou whoreson, senseless villain!
By telling truth: tell truth and shame the devil.
What, dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel?
his hands.
The sword, the mace, the crown imperial,
Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame:
And you were sworn true subjects unto me:
Thine, as he vowed to thee in thine ear,
This is the strangest tale that ever I heard.
Hence, prating peasant! fetch thy master home.
dare, and when you dare. Do me right, or I will
Of goodly thousands: but, for all this,
Of government the properties to unfold,
To all the rout, then hold me dangerous.
Came there a certain lord, neat, and trimly dress'd,
De elbow, madame.
Thou wast not made his daughter, and be thou sorry
True: those that were your father's enemies
Well hath your highness seen into this duke,
And hither make, as great ambassadors
To vie strange forms with fancy, yet, to imagine
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
O heavenly God!
deceits: dat is de princess.
And thought thee happy when I shook my head?
Not my deserts, but what I will deserve:
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to
Which rare it is to do--most praised, most loved,
'Tis much deep: and it should seem by the sun,
Now, mistress, how chance you went not with Master Slender?
Shall I be your playfellow?
As crooked in thy manners as thy shape!
Ha! art thou bedlam? dost thou thirst, base Trojan,
Here, Hume, take this reward, make merry, man,
Catesby, o'erlook the walls.
Christian burial.
When mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew,
After them! nay, before them, if we can.
Than yours so branchless. But, as you requested,
Great Caesar,--
Is't possible?
That might have mercy on the fault thou gavest him,
Enter GLOUCESTER and his DUCHESS
Never to wash his face, nor cut his hairs:
The life thou gavest me first was lost and done,
Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances,
My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
O, then, beware,
Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse
'Help, ho! they murder Caesar!' Who's within?
Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar's body.
Come on, i' God's name, once more toward our father's.
You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief:
Match not the high perfection of my loss:
Is like a villain with a smiling cheek,
'marry trap' with you, if you run the nuthook's
Sir, understand you this of me in sooth:
Why, what would you?
But few now living can behold that goodness--
[Within]  What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in the town?
Where thou shalt rest, that thou mayst hear of us
New joy wait on you! Here our play has ending.
Before the kings and queens of France.
Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love!
A hundred thousand welcomes. I could weep
They had parted so much honesty among 'em
buff jerkin?
But that's past doubt, you have, or your eye-glass
Time enough to go to bed with a candle, I warrant
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
cheerful look, a pleasing eye and a most noble
As precious eyesight, and did value me
That fear to hate, and hate turns one or both
Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age,
cowl-staff? look, how you drumble! Carry them to
Why, in good time.
none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand by
Go home, call for sweet water, wash thy hands.
Let in that amity which you have made,
This will I carry to Rome.
Sirrah, your father's dead,
Enter SATURNINUS, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON,  Lords, and others, SATURNINUS with the arrows in his hand that TITUS shot
His heart and hand both open and both free,
Here is her hand, the agent of her heart,
Of prison gates,
They converse apart
ANTIPHOLUS
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth,
That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
My house was at the Phoenix? Wast thou mad,
Your faithful friends o' the suburbs? We shall have
Meaning me a beast.
Though fortune's malice overthrow my state,
Good my lord!
Small have continual plodders ever won
saw.
Mark how short his answer is,--With Hero, Leonato's
Amongst this princely heap, if any here,
Tooth that poisons if it bite,
But now 'tis made an H.
Approves her fit for none but for a king:
I like him well.
Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give
Speak that which is not.
Ere he take ship for France, and in Southampton.
When Proteus cannot love where he's beloved.
'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
Well, my dread lord, so must I call you now.
Trouble yourselves no further: pray you, hasten
I'll go along with you.
Is now dishonoured by this new marriage.
Most true, if ever truth were pregnant by
wars is not kept: if you would take the pains but to
Chain mine arm'd neck, leap thou, attire and all,
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MECAENAS, with his Army, OCTAVIUS CAESAR reading a letter
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
Exeunt
Alas, I then have chid away my friend!
And I the house of York.
A jewel in a ten-times-barr'd-up chest
Because thou art not seen,
'Tis sworn between us we shall ever strike
With such a zealous laughter, so profound,
Nay, I told you your son was well beloved in Padua.
Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.
That thou hast practised on her with foul charms,
You are too officious
And make bold power look pale--they threw their caps
How little is the cost I have bestow'd
Shall I send to thee?
'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.
So tell your cousin, and bring me word
Is it your will Claudio shall die tomorrow?
Enter ALCIBIADES, with drum and fife, in warlike manner, PHRYNIA and TIMANDRA
Indeed, sir, she was the sweet marjoram of the
No, I eat not lords.
And then my soul shall wait on thee to heaven,
The lag end of their lewdness and be laugh'd at.
I' the city of kites and crows.
She makes it strange, but she would be best pleased
For God's sake, let us sit upon the ground
In verity you did, my bones bear witness,
What, courage, man! What though care killed a cat,
No, they are free that gave these tokens to us.
[Aside]  This is about that which the bishop spake:
If with a lady of so high resolve
And not protector, of the king or realm.
That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old
A gilt nutmeg.
Meantime, this deep disgrace in brotherhood
Of force enough to bid his brother battle,
Ay, just, a verse in Horace, right, you have it.
It shall be seven ere I go to horse:
That's the next to do.
[Within]  An answer from the king, or we will all break in!
Shall out-tongue his complaints. 'Tis yet to know,--
This is the man should do the bloody deed,
Assuming man's infirmities,
Diana, to take heed of the allurement of one Count
Let me not shame respect, but give me leave
See suitors following and not look behind,
A housewife that by selling her desires
so loud and so melancholy. But notwithstanding,
Last night she enjoined me to write some lines to
To quell the rebels and their complices.
Excellent Pucelle, if thy name be so,
Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable
Expecting ever when some envious surge
To the discontented members, the mutinous parts
Drum sounds afar off
Sleeps in Elysium, next day after dawn,
My masters, know you that.
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
I will not.
the commodity wages not with the danger: therefore,
That thou with licence of free foot hast caught,
Hold, worthy lady, hold:
Stand fast, Titinius: we must out and talk.
Why, Hal, thou knowest, as thou art but man, I dare:
Go bind this man, for he is frantic too.
The gods themselves do weep!
What is't to me, when you yourselves are cause,
What, frighted with false fire!
thee, captain,
Forbid the sea for to obey the moon
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
To give obedience where 'tis truly owed:
You must, if you stay here, for here is the place
I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a
And now in peace my soul shall part to heaven,
Lords, I protest, my soul is full of woe,
Sirrah, be gone, or talk not, I advise you.
Haste still pays haste, and leisure answers leisure,
By thy approach thou makest me most unhappy.
go, vanish into air, away!
A shorter time shall send me to you, lords:
But by some unlook'd accident cut off!
do, not knowing what they do!
To after-eye him.
you?
have a foreknowledge of that too, and therefore
one tear: he is a stone, a very pebble stone, and
For shame, thou helding of a devilish spirit,
Where's the cook? is supper ready, the house
Now sadder, that you come so unprovided.
Demand me nothing: what you know, you know:
Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
Fools on both sides! Helen must needs be fair,
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
so many, like brothers, commanding one another's
With sleight and manhood stole to Rhesus' tents,
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
youth will aptly receive it, into a most hideous
I humbly thank you.
While we pursued the horsemen of the north,
Though I swore I leaped from the window of the citadel.
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO and FRIAR THOMAS
I would do more than that, if more were needful.
Open the gates, here's Gloucester that would enter.
And then will I be general of your woes,
I have considered so much, Camillo, and with some
But what to me, my love? but what to me? A wife?
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
Methought he bore him in the thickest troop
How and which way I may bestow myself
Are excellent in making ladies trip,
Begins his golden progress in the east.
Make me, that nothing have, with nothing grieved,
Than you expect: unseal this letter soon,
How shall I fashion me to wear a cloak?
He and his forces enter the city
you not see you move him? let me alone with him.
For girls of nine, O, think what they have done
Who prologue-like your humble patience pray,
What says Ulysses?
The carriage of his chafe.
In time will find their fit rewards. That seal,
And wilt thou still be hammering treachery,
I shall, King Harry. And so fare thee well:
I'll have no speaking: I will have my bond.
But not away to-morrow!
'B mi,' Bianca, take him for thy lord,
And never suffers matter of the world
letter: but let thine inherit first, for, I
Was that it was, for not being such a smile,
And yet methinks your grace hath not done well,
Did violate so itself.
I cannot tell.
three, for so I have promised, and I'll be as good
What further comes.
And call it cunning: do, an if you will:
succession for it perpetually.
Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
I'll catch it ere it come to ground:
men's liking: and yet he would not swear, praised
This liberty is all that I request,
Exeunt OBERON, TITANIA, and train
down the Tower too. Come, let's away.
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
Now, lords, my choler being over-blown
Is not to reason of the deed, but do it.
Confound them by some course, and come to me,
Are my discourses dull? barren my wit?
the lime of good neighbours. If a man do not erect
Let me entreat, for I command no more,
And gives to every power a double power,
But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours,
Alas, it cried 'Give me some drink, Titinius,'
His eldest sister, Anne,
Your knees to them, not arms, must help. Alack,
highness wronged.
Where is it?
But for the concord of my state and time
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
For me, most wretched, to perform the like.
Better it is to die, better to starve,
For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
These, as I learn, and such like toys as these
Sweet is the country, because full of riches,
It looks a little paler: 'tis a day,
Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand
This sensible warm motion to become
But they must blab--
He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
Are singled forth to try experiments:
Their courage with hard labour tame and dull,
I do believe it.
Flourish. Exeunt
Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf,
Who's there?
What?
I thought thou hadst been resolute.
Fitzwater, thou art damn'd to hell for this.
Confess yourselves wondrous malicious,
to-night, are those stars or suns upon it?
Eros!--I come, my queen:--Eros!--Stay for me:
yesterday in despite of my invention.
That his attendant--so his case was like,
And see him seated in the regal throne.
And makes a god of such a cullion:
What do you think?
hey-day, freedom!
Bow your knees.
KING HENRY VIII kisses the child
Good madam, do: I warrant it grieves my husband,
To study fashions to adorn my body:
That struck the hour!--it was in Rome,--accursed
see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
That, had he twenty heads to tender down
Who was last with them?
All's hush'd as midnight yet.
For Pyramus therein doth kill himself.
Brooks no division: it will be thought
Rare Egyptian!
What prince is that?
Up, and away!
Think therefore on revenge and cease to weep.
To fit your fancies to your father's will,
and that I hope is an unmeasurable distance.
Most dread liege,
I did, my lord.
Come, lady, die to live: this wedding-day
Knew you not Pompey? Many a time and oft
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
on, have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
When vantage like a pair of twins appear'd,
like the witch of Brentford.
no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
Nothing goes right: we would, and we would not.
Is he ready
Drove him to this.
Sir, I do invite you too, you shall not
Nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth,
Exit
Antonio, I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino.
What think you they portend?
And bring in cloudy night immediately.
They run off
Exit MARIA
Who cannot be crushed with a plot?
I pray you, give me leave to go from hence,
wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet
Why, Petruchio is coming in a new hat and an old
Varro's Servant	Is't not your business too?
Of you, Lord Rivers, and, Lord Grey, of you,
him a coward. And, I pray thee now, tell me for
Your valour puts well forth: pray, follow.
Commune with you of this, but rather follow
Of true sincerity? O, holy sir,
Every wise man's son doth know.
Ay, now begins a second storm to rise,
Give me mine angle, we'll to the river: there,
Though 'twere to buy a world of happy days,
O, that a man should speak those words to me!
Think not I flatter, for I swear I do not--
Who woo'd in haste and means to wed at leisure.
Say thou wilt course, thy greyhounds are as swift
How now!
Am pregnant to good pity. Give me your hand,
All's one. Good faith, how foolish are our minds!
Our project's life this shape of sense assumes:
And once again, a pot o' the smallest ale.
By his blunt bearing he will keep his word,
A passion most unsuiting such a man--
Lucius our emperor, for well I know
No, madam, I do but read madness: an your ladyship
Re-enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, MOTH, COSTARD, and others
Sir, this is the house: please it you that I call?
Thy commander, Achilles. Then tell me, Patroclus,
Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words
Which on your just proceeding I'll keep off,
Some other time for that. Beloved Regan,
Basta, content thee, for I have it full.
Therefore, my loving lords, our pleasure is
A good rebuke,
you, to your rights:
Nor you, as we are, loyal.
Let her hang me: he that is well hanged in this
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough, God
Only attended by Nerissa here,
with me: I'll be horn-mad.
I have not slept.
Moral! no, by my troth, I have no moral meaning, I
within the term of three years, he shall endure such
King Henry's peers and chief nobility
the street.
For mine own part, I could be well content
Now useless, boil'd within thy skull! There stand,
O, rhymes are guards on wanton Cupid's hose:
Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy.
Our king and company, the next, our ship--
Is by your fancy's thankful doom.
But you, my lord, were glad to be employ'd,
It will not speak, then I will follow it.
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn
Beseech you, sir, to spare me, till I may
I am glad your grace has made that right use of it.
Submissive fall his princely feet before,
Lechery! I defy lechery. There's one at the gate.
Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there.
SCENE I. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Hark! our drums
Now is he total gules, horridly trick'd
O, tell me how it is, for ne'er till now
To answer by the method, in the first of his heart.
Though they did change me to the meanest bird
Is either slain or wounded dangerously,
An hour or more, not meaning any harm?
'Thus, thus,' quoth Forrest, 'girdling one another
O Clifford, boisterous Clifford! thou hast slain
But longer did we not retain much hope,
a puppet or an aglet-baby, or an old trot with ne'er
Pardon, I pray thee, for my mad mistaking.
Which way should be go? how should I bestow him?
Is full of virtue, bounty, worth and qualities
Your business was more welcome.
Or that we quit this place, let's draw our weapons.
I understand a fury in your words.
by the flesh, and he must needs go that the devil drives.
Why, boy! why, wag! how now! what's the matter?
is no man can tell what. Methought I was,--and
Honour'd, beloved, and haply one as kind
Your tale must be how he employ'd my mother.
me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
That's done, as near as the extremest ends
We are advertised by our loving friends
To nothing but despair. A thousand knees
Yes, good Griffith,
I do not so secure me in the error,
'Fear not, Macbeth, no man that's born of woman
Excludes all pity from our threatening looks.
He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes,
Her face the book of praises, where is read
Like workmen. I'll example you with thievery.
Yea, brother of Clarence, are thou here too?
That nature makes. You see, sweet maid, we marry
To thee I do commend my watchful soul,
I, that I am one now:
And that the French were almost ten to one,
Who thunders to his captives blood and death,
From our faults, as faults from seeming, free!
It is Lord Angelo.
There's many a beast then in a populous city,
You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
How if your husband start some other where?
This gentleman, my Cadwal, Arviragus,
A tempest, which his mortal vessel tears,
Whether you had not sometime in your life
What's to come is still unsure:
That doth presume to boast of gentle blood.
I did so, and went further, which is now
Enter MALVOLIO
Thou flatter'st misery.
forsooth, to search his house for his wife's love.
I found you as a morsel cold upon
As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack.
here's a goodly sight.
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
And pardon me, my gentle Gratiano,
being a beast, she would have me, but that she,
Who knew of Your intent and coming hither?
To every idle rascal follower.
By all the battles wherein we have fought,
Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity.
O, good my lord!
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
the dukes, and a worse matter than that: I have
You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting,
Let not our looks put on our purposes,
nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do
And I    and now we three have spoke it,
And I'll withdraw me and my bloody power:
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
Pinch him, fairies, mutually,
I have dined.
Ravish a maid, or plot the way to do it,
Casca, you are the first that rears your hand.
They converse apart
and waiting-women. So, bless thee, master!
is not show his face.
In our own proper entrails.
I dare now call mine own. O Cromwell, Cromwell!
We'll pass the business privately and well.
By being worse than they. I am Posthumus,
What's the noise?
And to my state grew stranger, being transported
Well, we shall sift him.
To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
Description cannot suit itself in words
Her delicate cheek: it seem'd she was a queen
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
Though they had wings: slave, soulless villain, dog!
And comes to his election presently.
Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee,
If Lewis by your assistance win the day.
Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault
him use for it, a double heart for his single one:
And pay you for your voices. 'Tis no matter,
for I never saw her: I would be loath to cast away
And all for her, a plague upon her!
Sith that the justice of your title to him
To watch the waning of mine adversaries.
Against my coming in: thou better know'st
Make your best haste, and go not
Marry, God forfend!
Mistake not, uncle, further than you should.
They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.
enough, if we know we are the kings subjects: if
That Edward is escaped from your brother,
Exeunt RATCLIFF and the other Attendants
Exit Servant
Give me no help in lamentation,
DON
And we must do it wisely.
Alas, poor souls, it grieved my heart to hear what
To-morrow, to-day, presently, you shall have the
Though I condemn not, yet, under pardon,
Holla! Bernardo!
That's able to breathe life into a stone,
Wherein your lady and your humble wife
There, hold!
Acting it many ways. Nay, had I power, I should
As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here.
Give us particulars of thy preservation,
And pity her for her good father's sake,
Who by the hand of France this day hath made
nor pibble pabble in Pompey's camp, I warrant you,
What, you will not? Prithee, tell my master what a
And whereso'er this foot of mine doth tread,
Faults proper to himself: if he had so offended,
Dares look upon the heaven of her brow,
The hopes of court! my hopes in heaven do dwell.
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
To-day to marry with my brother's daughter?
Tiber in't, said to be something imperfect in
good manners, if thou never sawest good manners,
Wherefore did you so?
Brave Burgundy, undoubted hope of France!
Of starved people.
No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge.
Your eyes, half out, weep out at Pandar's fall,
What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his
Nor of them look for such observances
It sorts well with your fierceness.
Now is this golden crown like a deep well
They are worse fools to purchase mocking so.
capricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths.
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
And in thy sons, fair slips of such a stock.
This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue
Your grace's pardon, and I hope I had it.
And partly credit things that do presage.
Drinks to HORTENSIO
I wear it for a memorable honour,
Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall
Ay, my good lord.
SCENE III. Pomfret Castle.
Not to be married,
No.
Whither should I fly?
Can we set eye on, but in all safe reason
Then all too late I bring this fatal writ,
I can tell you, but young Romeo will be older when
So, by your circumstance, you call me fool.
SCENE I. A part of the Grecian camp.
For doughty-handed are you, and have fought
On such a full sea are we now afloat,
With bisson rheum, a clout upon that head
thee, if she will not, I will never have her unless
Hark, how our steeds for present service neigh!
whom came he? to the beggar: what saw he? the
Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
Enter Time, the Chorus
I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:
This night to meet here, they could do no less
As well as I can, madam.
believe it was done in fight, and persuaded us to do the like.
Garnish'd and deck'd in modest complement,
I did not think
well, sir.
The castle of Macduff I will surprise,
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
Your fears are worse.
Call Agamemnon head and general.
hands on him?
Exit
And be a thwart disnatured torment to her!
It is his highness' pleasure that the queen
What is your study?
Out of my lean and low ability
ruffians bald,
marriage, and God give thee joy!
I fear me you but warm the starved snake,
With wrinkled brows, with nods, with rolling eyes.
him at the bird-bolt. I pray you, how many hath he
Then let us both be sudden.
And death approach not ere my tale be done.
ACT II
tapsters: they will draw you, Master Froth, and you
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
So near our public court as twenty miles,
Your joys with like relation. Go together,
Most likely, sir.
And did request me to importune you
That you would wear it till your hour of death
He wanted pikes to set before his archers,
As art and practise hath enriched any
unblessed and the ingredient is a devil.
As that which causeth it: how can I moderate it?
Make work upon ourselves, for heaven or hell.
But I will sort a pitchy day for thee,
Of all exploits since first I follow'd arms,
If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
I know the man. What is the sum he owes?
Mine boy? not till King Henry be dead.
The herd hath more annoyance by the breeze
In any honest suit: she's framed as fruitful
How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
Hermione was not so much wrinkled, nothing
Giving her DESDEMONA's handkerchief
Do ebb and flow with tears, the bark thy body is,
What things in the world canst thou nearest compare
your ensuing marriage,--surely suit ill spent and
There Minotaurs and ugly treasons lurk.
intrusion, for they say, if money go before, all
Speak low, if you speak love.
Enter BERTRAM
Like her! O Isis! 'tis impossible.
The very spirit of Plantagenet!
Her affability and bashful modesty,
Gone already!
I am about to weep, but, thinking that
[Reads]  'So it is,'--
My love, without retention or restraint,
full of vent. Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy,
Such as she is, in beauty, virtue, birth,
To the gross clasps of a lascivious Moor--
Lesser than Macbeth, and greater.
In the protection of his son, her brother,
Take in your love, and then let me alone.
See how the blood is settled in his face.
he is enamoured on Hero, I pray you, dissuade him
To make of him a formal man again:
Oh for our father, for our dear lord Clarence!
Patience, good sir,
O infinite virtue, comest thou smiling from
Nature should be so conversant with pain,
The steps of wrong, should move you to mew up
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
Which he did end all his, and took some pride
Where I will write. All may be well enough.
Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'
Are prized by their masters: believe't, dear lord,
Which on thy royal party granted once,
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
For such a petty war: his soldiership
The one my duty owes, but my fair name,
For that he knew you, might reproach your life
And therein, hellish dog, thou hast undone.
Come to the Centaur, fetch our stuff from thence:
My lord, her wits, I fear me, are not firm:
With that recognizance and pledge of love
I thank it. More, I prithee, more. I can suck
I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
are no worse, if imagination amend them.
I am beholding to you: cheer your neighbours.
Been loose, this day they had been lost. Such joy
Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
You know the lady, she is fast my wife,
I never saw you in my life till now.
Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Exeunt
I pray you, tarry: pause a day or two
Me they concern, Regent I am of France.
Are you in earnest, sir?
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
The country cocks do crow, the clocks do toll,
Of those that lawless and incertain thought
Upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse,
My dearest master, your dear son, may hie:
With men like men of inconstancy.
Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
O,--As true as truest horse, that yet would
Why, very well, I telling you then, if you be
Sirrah, I'll teach thee a speech.
fiend, 'for the heavens, rouse up a brave mind,'
There was no winter in't, an autumn 'twas
That labour may you save: see where he comes.
Or give me ribs of steel! I shall split all
Drawn in the flattering table of her eye.
Methought thy very gait did prophesy
And quite lost their hearts: the nobles hath he fined
And, gentle master, I received no gold,
In the Duke of Gloucester's purse.
Excels whatever yet you look'd upon
Re-enter MACDUFF, with MACBETH's head
So part we sadly in this troublous world,
Let's hear our tribune: peace Speak, speak, speak.
Therefore away, and leave her bravely, go:
And why should Caesar be a tyrant then?
But, ere we go, regard this dying prince,
Though bearing misery, I desire my life
Is run in your displeasure.
Pinch him for his villany,
To help King Edward in his time of storm,
Come, wife, let's in, and learn to govern better,
If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there,
Or tear the lions out of England's coat,
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
hill, let him draw thee after. When a wise man
Help, hold his brows! he'll swoon! Why look you pale?
Qualtitie calmie custure me! Art thou a gentleman?
He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
Come, come, away.
Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?
To greet me with premeditated welcomes,
SCENE III. A highway between Rome and Antium.
I am sure you know him well enough.
Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the
revenue for ever, and live the beloved of your
Save thee, friend, and thy music: dost thou live by
Doth she not think me an old murderer,
was this directed to you?
To win a vulgar station: or veil'd dames
Question her proudly, let thy looks be stern:
MARCUS and the Sons of TITUS kneel
And see you read no other lectures to her:
Till it cry sleep to death.
And others, when the bagpipe sings i' the nose,
But for containing fire to harm mine eye.
That makest my blood cold and my hair to stare?
Enter THURIO and Musicians
To Richmond, in those parts beyond the sea
How you may hurt yourself, ay, utterly
grange, resides this dejected Mariana. At that
Peace, you ungracious clamours! peace, rude sounds!
O my dear brother!
Exeunt
That I will joy no more.
That I shall think it a most plenteous crop
Never saw like thee. Let an old man embrace thee,
I'll call for clubs, if you will not away.
a spaniel. Come your ways.
answer in a catechism.
Alas! he is betray'd and I undone.
Know of me then, for now I speak to some purpose,
My dear?
The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion.
Yet may he live awhile, and, it may be,
Nay, go not from me, I will follow thee.
Therefore farewell, I see thou know'st me not.
Fit to instruct her youth. If you, Hortensio,
Rugby, come to the court with me. By gar, if I have
For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself
In pleasure of my spleen.' And in this fashion,
assure ye, it was a buck of the first head.
But we will plant some other in the throne,
PROLOGUE
Over his country's wrongs, and by this face,
Ay, my good lord, and no one in this presence
His name that valiant duke hath left with thee,
The Duke of Buckingham's surveyor, ha?
My gentleman, Cesario?
Will see his burial better than his life.
Than in a polite distance.
With tears of innocency and terms of zeal,
My lord is dead, Edmund and I have talk'd,
And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age,
pitiful cries they made to us to help them, when,
He has deserved it, were it carbuncled
sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll be hanged,
My love and fear glued many friends to thee,
I humbly thank your ladyship.
When with his Amazonian chin he drove
All's one for that.
Now beat them hence, why do you let them stay?
Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
They shall abound as formerly.
Peace, peace! forbear:
His discontents are unremoveably
Therefore, at your vantage,
Exeunt HENRY PERCY and Lords
To fall in love with him, but, for my part,
There is a kind of character in thy life,
BISHOP
Upon his son, who, high in name and power,
Mine honour into lust, to take away
Sir Walter Blunt, new lighted from his horse.
Bardolph, follow him. A tapster is a good trade:
Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond,
I trust I shall. My women, come, you have leave.
hast thou a mark to thyself, like an honest
Post speedily to my lord your husband, show him
What trade, thou knave? thou naughty knave, what trade?
Between two horses, which doth bear him best,
My lord, my lord,
Talk like the vulgar sort of market men
[Reads]
You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a
Alack, for lesser knowledge! how accursed
own virtues, as I am to myself. So much for
The extreme dangers and the drops of blood
SCENE V. The Forest.
In him, a royal prince, and many moe
Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's asleep.
Married my daughter there! for, coming thence,
yet.
The unseen good old man.
See here these movers that do prize their hours
Be closed in our household's monument.
But that the heavens fought: the king himself
Great lords, wise men ne'er sit and wail their loss,
That which I durst not speak, his present gift
Exeunt Prologue, Thisbe, Lion, and Moonshine
While you are thus employ'd, what resteth more,
[Within]  Ho! Peace be in this place!
Yet this my comfort: when your words are done,
I'll be as good as my word: he will bear you easily
That ever spider twisted from her womb
In each thing give him way, cross him nothing.
Enter MIRANDA, and PROSPERO at a distance, unseen
Ah, what a shame! ah, what a fault were this!
Exeunt
You shall do well, the fault of it I'll answer.
This something-settled matter in his heart,
Save him, save him!
She adulterates hourly with thine uncle John,
Hang thou there upon the tomb,
Your actions are my dreams,
ARIEL sings
an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?
I was by at the opening of the fardel, heard the old
We should take root here where we sit, or sit
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.
No talk of Timon, nothing of him expect.
For such things in a false disloyal knave
And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.
I not purpose it.
Truly, thou art damned like an ill-roasted egg, all
Peace and content be here! Lord Timon! Timon!
Were it all yours to give it in a breath,
Too hard an exclamation.
neat's tongue, you bull's pizzle, you stock-fish! O
Who is so far from Italy removed
You are pardon'd, Isabel:
Come, sirs.
Frank nature, rather curious than in haste,
A sable silver'd.
And yonder, Caesar.
And let not hemp his wind-pipe suffocate:
In embassy to his mother: his body's hostage
godheads to borrow of men, men would forsake the
As the main point of this our after-meeting,
shines, I'll make a sop o' the moonshine of you:
Have with you to see this monster.
and I'll give him my horse, grey Capilet.
Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
carelessly,
If both remain alive: to take the widow
Lest parties, as he is beloved, break out,
'Twixt you there's difference, but the fall of either
Therefore, I pray you, lead me to the caskets
Say you?
Well, keep good quarter and good care to-night:
Here, villain, drawn and ready. Where art thou?
condition of a man!
You Banbury cheese!
nor into a pepper-box: but, lest the devil that
And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news.
Till we do hear from them.
Be yoked with his that did betray the Best!
Lychorida, no tears:
Have their ingratitude in them hereditary:
'Tis the god Hercules, whom Antony loved,
Plotted and 'greed on for my happiness.
Hark, villains! I will grind your bones to dust
Do not draw back, for we will mourn with thee
Some better than his value, on the moment
Shortly shall all my labours end, and thou
Good day, my lord.
lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient. Let's
Do make myself a suitor to your daughter,
And hardening of my brows.
Rather directly fly.
more of your matter before the King.
Went all afoot in summer's scalding heat,
Such troops of citizens to speak with him,
Yes, every man of them, and no man here
Exit
When blood is nipp'd and ways be foul,
For which your honour and your faith is pawn'd,
He's both their parent, and he is their grave,
Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey.
Excellent good.
Out, fool!
I cannot give it vital growth again.
A moth of peace, and he go to the war,
No, sir, it does not please me.
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
as well as another man, a plague on my bringing up!
Kate, I cannot look greenly nor gasp out my
for the time when. Now for the ground which, which,
I know thee well,
Or 'What good love may I perform for you?'
Recoil upon me: in himself too mighty,
Have benched and reared to worship, who mayst see
That married with Othello.
Exit
setting thy knighthood aside, thou art a knave to
And you too, Somerset and Montague,
Prithee, tarry:
Leave not the worthy Lucius, good my lords,
Mine own desert.
ACT II
Nor how my father would enforce me marry
Oh, Oh, Oh!
No? you say your husband.
That in himself which he spurs on his power
And our King Henry gives away his own,
Enter CLARENCE, with drum and colours
Use all the observance of civility,
Will be as rash in the repeal, as hasty
Address their dangers in. Hector is gone:
These boys know little they are sons to the king,
Come, come and lay him in his father's arms:
Pays this for Marcus Crassus.
Sir,
Should raise so great a power without his leave,
And keep me on the side where still I am.
Reads
There was no link to colour Peter's hat,
daughter's flight.
staring on one another, to tear the cases of their
You did continue fault and that you slipp'd not
Were such things here as we do speak about?
Here comes that which grows to the stalk, never
Second Serving-man	And so will I.
6. Marquess Dorset, bearing a sceptre of gold,
Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave,
Work, work your thoughts, and therein see a siege,
The private wound is deepest: O time most accurst,
That everything I look on seemeth green:
Let us pursue him ere the writs go forth.
Never greater,
young days. Why, I am going with my pigeons to the
Damn her, lewd minx! O, damn her!
Feel, then.
Till Cranmer, Cromwell, her two hands, and she,
The Fifth Knight passes over
If it should give your age such cause of fear:
Or has given all before, and he begins
Very true, sir, he, sir, he, that's the rogue that
Dull, unmindful villain,
Good lord chamberlain,
Upon the fortune of this present year:
That drums him from his sport, and speaks as loud
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
What, art thou angry, Pandarus? what, with me?
violence of action hath made you reek as a
And whet on Warwick to this enterprise.
I would not from thee.
So shall I no whit be behind in duty
abuses our young plants with carving 'Rosalind' on
Enter BUCKINGHAM and DERBY
Enter a Messenger
Then would come some matter from him, I see none now.
Son of Polixenes, with his princess, she
Pierce every sense about thee! Old fond eyes,
Get me a ladder.
That fly me thus? some villain mountaineers?
Come, come,
By the second hour i' the morn.
Fail not to use, and with what vehemency
Peasant, avaunt! You have suborn'd this man,
Shall we go, coz?
had been swelled! I should have been a mountain of mummy.
The scatter'd foe that hopes to rise again,
Even in condition of the worst degree,
You were pretty lordings then?
That which but seems unlike: 'tis not impossible
One word more, good lady.
Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?
'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
How now, Lorenzo!
At Berkley castle.
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
No, since.
Which never hopes more heaven than rests in thee,
Cominius, no.
For how can tyrants safely govern home,
The anchor is deep: will that humour pass?
I will discharge my bond and thank you too.
Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it
That place them on the truth of girls and boys.
Dost it enforcedly, thou'ldst courtier be again,
To have him see me woman'd.
The court's a learning place, and he is one--
Even as my life, or blood that fosters it.
I have been broad awake two hours and more.
In a cowslip's bell I lie,
Who taught you this?
Re-enter ARIEL before: then ALONSO, with a  frantic gesture, attended by GONZALO,  SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO in like manner,  attended by ADRIAN and FRANCISCO   they all  enter the circle which PROSPERO had made,  and there stand charmed, which PROSPERO observing, speaks:
Even at the heels in golden multitudes.
Enter a Post
As I wish you were.
As if she sat in 's heart, she says all men
SCENE I. Padua. Before LUCENTIO'S house.
Well, sir, my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,
For that I have laid by my majesty
That my Nerissa shall be sworn on is,
Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
Cry 'Welcome, ladies, welcome!'
Gave any tragic instance of our harm:
Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world,
I know that knave, hang him! one Parolles: a
Rest, sword, thou hast thy fill of blood and death.
They draw
The blot and enemy to our general name!
O, vengeance!
The object and the pleasure of mine eye,
shall I be appointed hours, as though, belike, I
And all the pleasures you usurp are mine.
We come to use our hands and not our tongues.
man if you see him?
God's my life, where's the sexton? let him write
care, so far that I have eyes under my service which
As I was banish'd, I was banish'd Hereford,
Win upon power and throw forth greater themes
Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes,
Than wanton dalliance with a paramour.
Gathering up the pieces
And he wears jewels now of Timon's gift,
Hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat
I grant ye, upon instinct. Well, he is there too,
Madam, not so, I do beseech you, stay.
The morn is fair. Good morrow, general.
When I have told you that, I have told you all.
By my soul,
Such duty as the subject owes the prince
How this lord is follow'd!
There is example for't, the lady of the Strachy
Did give him that same royalty he wears,
Why, lords, what wrongs are these! was ever seen
Arming to answer in a night alarm.'
Who is it that hath warn'd us to the walls?
Of knights, esquires, and gallant gentlemen,
And ostentation of despised arms?
In the end of autumn turned to the rams,
which rolls, and rolls, and rolls: in good truth,
That idles in the wanton summer air,
Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep
I true! how now! what wicked deem is this?
three umpires in this matter, as I understand, that
An age of poverty, from which lingering penance
melancholy, if you will favour the man, but, by my
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
On any soul removed but on his own.
They would restrain the one, distain the other.
All's not offence that indiscretion finds
A mark so bloody on the business, but
This is a letter of your own device.
But 'tis that miracle and queen of gems
How I am galled,--mightst bespice a cup,
The purest treasure mortal times afford
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
And offer me disguised in sober robes
What, that my leg is too long?
They have it very oft that have it not:
The law hath yet another hold on you.
And bosom'd with her, as far as we call hers.
But mine I am sure thou art, whoe'er thou be,
Ay, he spoke Greek.
You cry against the noble senate, who,
I thank you for your pains: spend this for me.
I understand you not.
Associated with Aufidius, rages
Cloten, thou double villain, be thy name,
When I have envied thy behavior.
O, I am fortune's fool!
O happy Leonatus! I may say
ear, bloody of hand, hog in sloth, fox in stealth,
Would not have been so stern.
indeed, know not their fathers and therefore have no names.
With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men
They are in action.
At my request he would not.
God's patience and the king's English.
I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares:
I do I know not what, and fear to find
After 'the duke his father,' with 'the knife,'
A critic, nay, a night-watch constable,
A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame
And call itself your brother.
So, prithee, go with me.
As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet,
But give your pigeons to the emperor:
So might your grace's person be in danger.
But now I know thy mind, thou dost suspect
Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
That, like a testy babe, will scratch the nurse
Speak freely what you think.
If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
For, if I should as lion come in strife
SCENE II. Another street.
You told how Diomed, a whole week by days,
Till twice five summers have enrich'd our fields
Look that you love your wife, her worth worth yours.
[Reads]  'Great deputy, the welkin's vicegerent and
LOVELL seems to stay
Peace, you were best.
Re-enter BOYET
God knows, of pure devotion, being call'd
Not a word: if you have any thing to say to me,
Came this from Hamlet to her?
[Going]  My lord, I take my leave.
And let belief and life encounter so
Camest thou from where they made the stand?
He said it would be thus, poor banish'd man!
Edward will always bear himself as king:
He made you for a highway to my bed,
Master, shall I fetch your stuff from shipboard?
We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
let him roar again.'
Fetch hither Richard, that in common view
And, must needs say, a noble one, which makes me,
From over-credulous haste: but God above
My gracious sovereign, now in Devonshire,
Well, we cannot greatly condemn our success: some
For you have but mistook me all this while:
Therefore, all hearts in love use their own tongues,
To tell this story, that you might excuse
Go, seek him: tell him I would speak with him.
Yield, rustic mountaineer.
Would even infect my mouth, I do forgive
To suffer, with a quietness of spirit,
I think you all have drunk of Circe's cup.
Alexander returneth into dust, the dust is earth, of
Pray you, lead on. At every house I'll call,
Thy slanders I forgive, and therewithal
it makes here: I am unfortunate in the infirmity,
Never, never, never, never, never!
He could not stay to pick them in a pile
O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum,
The sense of reckoning, if the opposed numbers
She swounds to see them bleed.
Among the high tides in the calendar?
thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in
that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
and, upon my life, fast asleep. Observe her, stand close.
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
All this! ay, more: fret till your proud heart break,
From glistering semblances of piety,
Which with experimental seal doth warrant
That this is true, father, behold his blood.
Saddle white Surrey for the field to-morrow.
to drink small beer: all the realm shall be in
Love is merely a madness, and, I tell you, deserves
What, boy!
Re-enter LUCETTA
Thou grievest my gall.
Never so weary, never so in woe,
Finding thee fit for bloody villany,
You dog!
Therefore, for God's sake, entertain good comfort,
And by good fortune I have lighted well
Exit
You are a very simplicity 'oman: I pray you peace.
worth another word, else I'ld call you knave. I leave you.
The expressure that it bears, green let it be,
O, help me, help me! pluck but off these rags, and
with a whoo-bub against his daughter and the king's
Hast thou not spirit to curse thine enemy?
I will.
I think no usurer but has a fool to his servant: my
and being so hard to me that brought your mind, I
And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us.
My lord of Salisbury, we have stay'd ten days,
Of loss, of slaughter and discomfiture:
Why, I'll tell you: this is called Pentapolis, and
There hangs a vaporous drop profound,
Of his bones are coral made,
Enter ANGELO
What's the matter?
Traitor, if Rome have law or we have power,
Another, with his finger and his thumb,
Was yours by accident, had it gone with us,
Dead?
Which we of taste and feeling are, for those parts that
but the devil, and we shall know him by his horns.
earl or duke, I can assure you.
Or docks, or mallows.
vain-glories?
That day appear'd, and oft before gave audience,
Never, till Caesar's three and thirty wounds
Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the
As if he were of note: bring him to the king.
SCENE III. Before OLIVER'S house.
For you love Hermia, this you know I know:
Perchance light in the light. I desire her name.
A high hope for a low heaven: God grant us patience!
GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes
March on, march on, since we are up in arms,
Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace!
How sometimes nature will betray its folly,
Who hath cause to wet the grief on't.
belly, ashore at Windsor? How shall I be revenged
Marry, the son of my grandfather.
[Beating him]  You whoreson cur!
And give them burial as beseems their worth.
My bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
What were you snarling all before I came,
And I'll keep London with my soldiers.
Cheerly to sea, the signs of war advance:
The cause is in my will: I will not come,
Raised only, that the weaker sort may wish
I think it lacks of twelve.
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
I am glad he went not in himself: if he had found
My honoured lord!
To buy and sell with groats, to show bare heads
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
Assuredly you know me.
Become themselves in her: that the holy priests
I am so far already in your gifts,--
Laid nobly on her: which perform'd, the choir,
why, being son to me, art thou so pointed at? Shall
Or rather then set forward, for 'twill be
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard
And spend our flatteries, to drink those men
For all the world.
sure of your husband now?
The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
The other makes you proud. He that trusts to you,
They sit
Ay, he: he offered to cut a caper at the
The other must be held the worthier.
For that will physic the great Myrmidon
You peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge!
'Twixt the souls of friend and friend:
Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day I
Speak then, thou vinewedst leaven, speak: I will
But you are more intemperate in your blood
Of cruel war: sixty and nine, that wore
Go in, and weep not, all things shall be well.
I have a man's mind, but a woman's might.
I accuse them not.
Exit
Go, hang yourselves all! you are idle shallow
Of my more fierce endeavour: I have seen drunkards
Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality:
Forbid the sun to enter, like favourites,
Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her,
To force him after: in whose company
Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof!
No court in Europe is too good for thee,
In unknown fathoms, will I break my oath
'Zounds, will they not rob us?
I fast and pray'd for their intelligence--thus:
A woful Cressid 'mongst the merry Greeks!
Hast thou observed that? even she, I mean.
And how thou pleasest, God, dispose the day!
And executing the outward face of royalty,
How fares our cousin, noble Lord of York?
Hark you, he swears, by Jupiter he swears.
Every elf and fairy sprite
you of some conveyance: in the house you cannot
O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Exit
Nay, it will please him well, Kate it shall please
Let's ha't, good Grumio.
Grows strong and great in substance and in power.
The cruel issue of these bloody men,
Deliver it to Madam Silvia:
Go to the creating a whole tribe of fops,
And give direction: and do but see his vice,
think the duke hath lost never a man, but one that
Seized on the realm, deposed the rightful king,
Which cannot hear a lady's feeble voice,
stubborn outside, with an aspect of iron, that, when
With ribands pendent, flaring 'bout her head,
And shall forget the office of our hand,
Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high
Should have ascended to the roof of heaven,
SCENE I. KING JOHN'S palace.
This is the latest parle we will admit,
I go, and it is done, the bell invites me.
HECTOR passes
'Item: She hath many nameless virtues.'
And think my patience, more than thy desert,
this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.
undiscovered. But 'tis all one to me, for had I
Enter Ghost
That matter needless, of importless burden,
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Palace.
These are their brethren, whom you Goths beheld
Enter Keeper
Must these have voices, that can yield them now
Hark, Petruchio, she says she'll see thee
No, no, he's gone.
Is rounded with a sleep. Sir, I am vex'd,
Retreat sounded
But when her humorous ladyship is by
O, by no means,
Good my lord,
For me, if I be gored with Mowbray's spear:
The king hath straitly charged the contrary.
'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
That I sleeping here was found
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
Were play'd in jest by counterfeiting actors?
always factionary on the party of your general.
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
ANTIPHOLUS
The phrase is to the matter.
She would never tell
Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:
That I am proud to hunt.
The Archbishop's grace of York, Douglas, Mortimer,
Enter the Ghost of LADY ANNE
benevolence to make atonements and compremises
More sweet than our blest fields: his royal bird
Why, of mankind.
And that is more than I will yield unto:
To his dog-hearted daughters, these things sting
Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms,
You amaze me, ladies: I would have told you of good
We then can do't at land.
It be to do thee service.
By no assay of reason: 'tis a pageant,
nothing, is to be a great part of your title, which
If she confess that she was half the wooer,
To pray at fortune. Haply, for I am black
Being urged at a time unseasonable.
Then leave this chat, and, good Biron, now prove
Enter a Messenger
Who cried aloud, 'What scourge for perjury
Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.
Myself will straight aboard: and to the state
The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
And plodded like a man for working-days,
Put in their hands thy bruising irons of wrath,
Dost overshine the gallant'st dames of Rome,
Because he married me before to Romeo?
They shall be praying nuns, not weeping queens,
Or I my life.
O'ercome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
RICHARD
I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death:
[Aside]  Very wisely, puppies!
But then a noise did scare me from the tomb,
Follow'd my banishment, and this twenty years
And in the breath of bitter words let's smother
'Faith, I intend so.
with me as the very true sonnet is, 'Please one, and
Whose face I never saw?
Not she: nor doth she tempt: but it is I
Only reserved their factor, to buy souls
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love,
Caesar made here, but made not here his brag
Good king, great king, and yet not greatly good,
Was guilty of it. Farewell worthy lord!
And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
I'll write unto them and entreat them fair.
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
Dear, look up:
[Beating him]  You cur!
To lop that doubt, he'll fill this land with arms,
it in practise. Be cunning in the working this, and
Either in discourse of thought or actual deed,
At any time, to grace my stratagems.
of this to-morrow. Adieu.
And with thy bloody and invisible hand
nettles, or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed up
Showing, as in a model, our firm estate,
And those but mean.
Did they not sometime cry, 'all hail!' to me?
Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
Let's reason with the worst that may befall.
I will not rise, unless your highness grant.
Which, mellow'd by the stealing hours of time,
Back do I toss these treasons to thy head,
Masters,--
doubtless, and of antiquity too, bawd-born.
I throw thy name against the bruising stones,
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
signior: fare you well.
I'll fight their legions o'er.
England is safe, if true within itself?
Drove back again unto my native clime?
Come, come, you have been too rough, something
Great Master of France, the brave Sir Guichard Dolphin,
woman, for in the shape of man, Master Brook, I fear
With Cain go wander through shades of night,
new court?
You have good leave to leave us: when we need
Why, Hal, 'tis my vocation, Hal, 'tis no sin for a
The moon was a month old when Adam was no more,
Upon no Christian soul but English Talbot.
Exit
Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
O, he's drunk, Sir Toby, an hour agone, his eyes
Let every eye negotiate for itself
But the safer when 'tis back'd with France.
To stir a mutiny in the mildest thoughts
Enter QUINCE for the Prologue
That have consented unto Henry's death!
bastards,--as, I think, I have brought up some eleven--
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
They set the same, and there it doth remain,
Hortensio, peace! thou know'st not gold's effect:
There,--on my conscience, put unwittingly?
To every new protester, if you know
go hard with you.
Than would make up his message.
Which would increase his evil. He that depends
offend: only, have a care that your bills be not
No more!
and hose. I'll go hide me.
Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none,
Egypt, thou knew'st too well
To see alike mine honour as their profits,
Exit
But mark'd him not a word. O, he is as tedious
One that will play the devil, sir, with you,
Very nobly
saying was born, of 'I fear no colours.'
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk?
Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.
Indeed I would be consul.
Not for that neither: here's the pang that pinches:
Nay, by'r our lady, that I think a' cannot.
Shall cross the seas, and bid false Edward battle,
Why, one that swears and lies.
knees, that she would make a puritan of the devil,
Here is a captain, let him tell the tale,
Is it the fashion, that discarded fathers
Ay, or else one must come in with a bush of thorns
this intolerable deal of sack! What there is else,
Now, pray thee, come,
unspotted soldiers: some peradventure have on them
Such as it is, and for mine own poor part,
And once again proclaim us King of England.
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Of this diseased opinion, and betimes,
fifty hairs' quoth he, 'and one white: that white
That was sent to me from the council, pray'd me
gipsies on a horse.
No, my lord.
gurnet. I have misused the king's press damnably.
Is fled to heaven, and England now is left
O worthy duke,
And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.
But that it doth presage some ill event.
Just as my master had direction:
With honour to maintain.
Do you not hear me speak?
The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches
I' the city of kites and crows! What an ass it is!
Thy element's below! Where is this daughter?
ACT III
Exit
know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of
What, upon compulsion? 'Zounds, an I were at the
To take is not to give.
Pray ye, sir?
My swift command, though I with death and with
Out, varlet, from my sight!
him but I am heart-burned an hour after.
here's a simple line of life: here's a small trifle
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,
No, my good lord, he speaks the common tongue,
Ay, my lord, they stay upon your patience.
A carrion Death, within whose empty eye
Marry, sir, they have committed false report,
Thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse more strange
Under device and practise.
I am unarm'd, forego this vantage, Greek.
Eye of newt and toe of frog,
From course required, or else thou must be counted
Upon that were my thoughts tiring, when we
And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
Good morrow, noble captain.
And follow you no further: let me go:
And they have seized Marina. Let her go:
I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
Here is a silly stately style indeed!
And sweating until my very roof was dry
But it straight starts you.
Because that now it lies you on to speak
I do not see them bleed.
Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh:
Orlando?
SCENE I:
lady's opinion, where you will hang like an icicle
Alarum. Enter an English Soldier, crying 'A  Talbot! a Talbot!' They fly, leaving their clothes behind
Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate
Good madam, make me blessed in your care
To give me hearing what I shall reply.
What grief hath set the jaundice on your cheeks?
Exeunt
Nor we disturb'd with prodigies on earth.
Let's want no discipline, make no delay,
Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
that I might have cudgelled thee out of thy single
But amongst honest women.
I found no man but he was true to me.
They shall stand for seed: they had gone down too,
Where is the master, boatswain?
That Lady Margaret do vouchsafe to come
Thou art a cobbler, art thou?
Duty and zeal to your unmatched mind,
humour and like enough to consent. What would you
Would it be better, madam, than I am?
Which breathed this poison.
A wise stout captain, and soon persuaded!
How now, Fluellen! camest thou from the bridge?
What noise there, ho?
But they will quake and tremble all this day.
Or, if he were not privy to those faults,
Though it be fit that Cassio have his place,
Shorten my days thou canst with sullen sorrow,
And take upon's the mystery of things,
For this design. What course I mean to hold
Thou hast not loved:
This heavy-headed revel east and west
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
One feast, one house, one mutual happiness.
They say this town is full of cozenage,
His riddle told not, lost his life:
postscript.
The noisome weeds, which without profit suck
That carries anger as the flint bears fire,
in buckram suits. I tell thee what, Hal, if I tell
To make my master out of love with thee!
The spinsters and the knitters in the sun
never take her without her answer, unless you take
and what one thing, what another, that I shall
This gentleman told somewhat of my tale,--
Your brother--no, no brother, yet the son--
That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.
Hardly conceive of me, let it be noised
I will have such revenges on you both,
As cloudy men use to their adversaries,
She whom thou gavest to me to be my wife,
And, honest company, I thank you all,
No tearing, lady: I perceive you know it.
Look up, speak.
It is: may it be done?
Yet, countrymen, O, yet hold up your heads!
Why, what's the matter?
Exeunt some with KING HENRY VI
As have thy love? Why dost not speak to me?
Therefore lay bare your bosom.
I know our country disposition well,
For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
And, being help'd, inhabits there.
Know you him?
This nothing's more than matter.
Ely with Richmond troubles me more near
If this be he you oft have wish'd to hear from.
The very head and front of my offending
As far as I see, all the good our English
your hand to the buttery-bar and let it drink.
No public benefit which you receive
fellow. Has he any unbraided wares?
[Aside to MISTRESS FORD]  Heard you that?
He hath commission from thy wife and me
I say gud-day, Captain Fluellen.
I would we could do so, for her benefits are
And Duncan's horses--a thing most strange and certain--
This is the rarest dream that e'er dull sleep
Dies
In countenance! Heaven shield your grace from woe,
We must suggest the people in what hatred
May be abused? Have you not read, Roderigo,
Nay, but do, then,
By being once false for ever to be true
I find in hardness, and do undertake
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
Wilt thou still talk?
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
Keep his brain fuming, Epicurean cooks
Is quite forgot. He was a queen's son, boys,
My comfort is that heaven will take our souls
leave them: and, sirrah, I have cases of buckram
Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES
And, in his mantle muffling up his face,
And with uplifted arms is safe arrived
My husband!
And on the proof, there is no more but this,--
God pardon them that are the cause of it!
And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim
That age, ache, penury and imprisonment
My heart is heavy and mine age is weak,
If thou receive me for thy warlike mate.
And the premised flames of the last day
God, for thy mercy! they are loose again.
humour as well as waiting in the court, I can tell
For what offence have I this fortnight been
Stay, stay, here comes the fool with Apemantus:
I come to woo ladies, I fright them. But, in faith,
No, be assured you shall not find me, daughter,
Come on then, and remove him.
Ay, that she can.
Gentlemen, enough of this: it came in too suddenly,
I'll know
They shall have none, I swear, but these my joints,
Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did,
Whose age has charms in it, whose title more,
uses to seal: 'tis my lady. To whom should this be?
So could I too.
Even such as they give out. I like your work,
Lends mettle to us all!
conscience, la!
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
As for my country I have shed my blood,
Not till I sheathe it in a murderer's skin.
Why at this time the doors are made against you.
Good friar, I know you do, and have found it.
His tears pure messengers sent from his heart,
I cry your worship's mercy, heartily: I beseech your
Am I Rome's slave? What penny hath Rome borne,
Before we enter his forbidden gates,
think but, in the end, the villainies of man will
Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
ANTIPHOLUS
This is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings,
By my troth, most pleasant: how both did fit it!
Besides this treasure for a fee,
Your greeting is from him, not from the king.
What need we any spur but our own cause,
Joint by joint, but we will know his purpose.
First, know, my horse is tired, my master and
Than all the rest, discharged me with these words:
Here, friend, 's another purse, in it a jewel
God be with you, sir, I will.
Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
But carries on the stream of his dispose
Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world,
Is, as a virtue, fix'd, to-day was moved:
Had left no mourning widows for our death,
Jeweller: You know me, Apemantus?
And that was all?
When nature flamed this piece, she meant thee a good
Wert thou the son of Jupiter and no more
But mark: as in this haughty attempt
What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two, to
Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage
Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind,
Of the last monarchy,--see that you come
Thy penitent reform'd: but we have been
shall not shame me.
So, one by one, we'll weed them all at last,
Hath show'd him gold, my life is spann'd already:
gluttonous maws.
Which writ his honour in the acts it did,
Here, on her breast,
these arms till you had recovered your ancient
Being at Antioch--
Your weak condition to the raw cold morning.
Pardon, my liege, that I have stay'd so long.
Nay, blush not, Cleopatra, I approve
Why no, you ruinous butt, you whoreson
SCENE VII. On board POMPEY's galley, off Misenum.
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Look on his letter, madam, here's my passport.
cross-gartered: I say, remember. Go to, thou art
In your own kingdom, sir.
Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue,
Even as her appetite shall play the god
I warrant you, mistress, thunder shall not so awake
Re-enter AARON, with QUINTUS and MARTIUS
How would it fare with your departed souls?
I'll pay thy pleasure then.
As able to perform't, his mind and place
For I have none: let no man speak again
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
Should have gone off.
That nature pranks her in attracts my soul.
If I would broach the vessels of my love,
Enter a Servant
That we are awake? It seems to me
That touches this my first-born son and heir!
Yet whether you accept our suit or no,
Where valiant Talbot above human thought
Then I, as one that am the tongue of these,
Exit
These earthly godfathers of heaven's lights
Which shines here in the west.
Was Caius Lucius in the Britain court
Northumberland, thou ladder wherewithal
Ha! Canterbury?
Off, coxcomb!
The dark and vicious place where thee he got
Made out of her impatience, which not wanted
The eyes of young and old. Care not for me
Why, Marcus, so she is.
To pay your present debts.
To train ten thousand English to their side,
And is that paper nothing?
Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter,
Which the base vulgar do call three.
Do pelt so fast at one another's pate
question, thou hadst well deserved it.
But all hoods make not monks.
Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
How?
According as I gave directions?
Blister'd be thy tongue
May yet ere night yield both my life and them
no black envy
and a pair of sweet gloves.
Made you my guardians, my depositaries,
Enter ARIEL
general run then? were not that a botchy core?
Whether they live or die.
you: nay, I pray you, let me go.
I think we are too bold upon your rest:
For it is you that puts us to our shifts:
What rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug,
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
Who is so full of grace, that it flows over
My father, being the Earl of Warwick's man,
folly! I am afraid this great lubber, the world,
To them the legions garrison'd in Gailia,
Love for thy love and hand for hand I give.
Thou'ldst not believe thy deeds: but I'll report it
This is his second fit, he had one yesterday.
Why, madam, if I were your father's dog,
I have lost my hopes.
It is impossible that ever Rome
For doing worthy vengeance on thyself,
I would have him poison'd with a pot of ale.
The slave's report is seconded, and more,
With barbarous ignorance and deny his youth
But Reignier, king of Naples, that prevail'd.
The noble sister of Publicola,
SCENE III. The woods. Timon's cave, and a rude tomb seen.
Exeunt CLARENCE, BRAKENBURY, and Guard
And now in plainness do confess to thee,
Have made thee fear'd and honour'd of the people:
shall pride carry it?
In every branch truly demonstrative,
[Aside]  That you are both decipher'd, that's the news,
His absolute commission. Long live Caesar!
How cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth,
talking. Trinculo, the king and all our company
Whose mouth is cover'd with rude-growing briers,
A very excellent piece of villany:
The son of Clarence have I pent up close,
We talk with goblins, owls and sprites:
And I must freely have the half of anything
That knew'st the very bottom of my soul,
Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
Nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass,
Hubert, I think?
And now it is about the very hour
Shall have a high reward, and he his life?
Enter a Second Servant
Peace! for I will not have to do with you.
The force of this commission: pray, look to't,
Is the day so young?
I'll whip thee with a rod: he is defiled
Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there?
That swells with silence in the tortured soul,
You are still crossing it. Sirs, let't alone:
Masters, let him go
Sleep she as sound as careless infancy:
Give me a torch: I am not for this ambling,
That mercy does, for calumny will sear
To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes,
Lives, honours, lands and all hurry to loss.
I do arrest you, sir: you hear the suit.
Jack, meet me to-morrow in the temple hall at two
Of valiant Shirley, Stafford, Blunt, are in my arms:
her upon the form, and taken following her into the
And honourable carriage,
Condemn'd to die for treason, but no traitor,
I hope he is much grown since last I saw him.
O, he's a limb that has but a disease,
Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and
Yet neither pleasure's art can joy my spirits,
Well, what has he done?
Humbling their deities to love, have taken
For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.
The Duke of Gloucester, to whom the order of the
heart-strings.
My soul would sue as advocate for thee.
If you submit you to the people's voices,
For the rain,  and c.
because your heart is in love with her, and out of
Re-enter LAFEU, with HELENA
with thee to disgrace her.
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
I pray you, let-a me speak a word with your ear.
left a purse alive in the whole army.
Didst thou hear these verses?
Exit KATHARINA
Fortunate mistress,--let my prophecy
I like the work well: ere it be demanded--
Was not Charles, the duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?
Leave thy drink and thy whore,
Though calved i' the porch o' the Capitol--
I tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine
Princes, that strive by factions and by friends
Our targes undinted.
That's not my fear, my meed hath got me fame:
And his disciples only envy at,
And to the battle came he, where he did
thou art thought to be Achilles' male varlet.
As easily as I do tear his paper.
Go to my chamber, Put on clothes of mine.
made me businesses which none without thee can
For that her reputation was disvalued
truepenny?
But with a little act upon the blood.
Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs,
Why, tell me, is not this my Cambio?
Did I deserve no more than a fool's head?
O, no, forbear! for that which we have fled
Enter an old Athenian
Re-enter KING LEAR with GLOUCESTER
Here is my hand, the premises observed,
For speculation turns not to itself,
And so are like to do.
KING HENRY VI swoons
No place will please me so, no mean of death,
I saw't this morning: confident I am
First, in this forest, let us do those ends
Enter an Attendant
Of breaking honesty--horsing foot on foot?
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would
He not respects at all. What, ho, Pisanio!
Ten and eleven?
This is his tent, and see where stand his guard.
Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.
Is longer than his foreskirt. By this time
Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief,
It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness,
But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by four
Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
That all the world shall--I will do such things,--
I do not know from what part of the world
Every thing is well.
You hear all these matters denied, gentlemen, you hear it.
My supreme crown of grief! and those repeated
Giving full trophy, signal and ostent
lie.
Be patient, for I will not let him stir
Saint Davy's day is past.
And what was first but fear what might be done,
That's enough.
hearken once again to the suit I made to thee?
Tut, I have done a thousand dreadful things
Run reeking o'er the lives of men, as if
And the best half should have return'd to him,
I am sure, I have received none, unless experience
What black magician conjures up this fiend,
Exit Attendant
To bear a hard opinion of his truth:
the ribs bare. But, sirrah, make haste: Percy is
The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for
Pray you, let's have no words of this, but when they
you will have leave,
Sir, Octavius is already come to Rome.
who, being more than sand-blind, high-gravel blind,
Shall then my father's will be of no force
I will give you the minstrel.
Abides in me, I say amen to all.
I may dispose of him.
My errand is to you, fair youth,
My father's loss, like a most royal prince,
Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand--
They are but beggars that can count their worth,
Your faithful service and your toil in war,
From envious malice of thy swelling heart.
Not a word with him but a jest.
With oath kept waking and with brawling fed:
She passes praise, then praise too short doth blot.
Exeunt
A messenger from the galleys.
shall be lopped branches, which, being dead many
witness of this: therefore I beseech your majesty,
This shower, blown up by tempest of the soul,
Approacheth, to confer about some matter.
Which Salique land the French unjustly gloze
this from me, I count it one of my greatest
No, he doth but mistake the truth totally.
'Twould be my tyranny to strike and gall them
With that she sighed as she stood,
In the sick air: let not thy sword skip one:
She levell'd at our purposes, and, being royal,
the finest part of pure love: we cannot call her
'Tis the last service that I shall command you.
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus
Make servants of their betters.
With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.
Sir, you speak nobly.
that can be can come between me and the full
What men of name are slain on either side?
good night, good night.
Is every flatterer's spirit. Who can call him
To-morrow, in mine opinion, is too sudden,
Urge neither charity nor shame to me:
We do not throw in unrespective sieve,
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
They wake
conduit of many kings' reigns. I never heard of such
To wayward sickliness and age in him:
O, what more favour can I do to thee,
Stand you! You have land enough of your own: but
Most thankfully, my lord.
simply your having in beard is a younger brother's
Monsieur Le Beau.
This is strange to me.
And since you do profess to be a suitor,
And then be gone and trouble you no more.
to-day, that your niece Beatrice was in love with
Why, sir, say if you had,
Were to incense the boar to follow us
If she first meet the curled Antony,
Their softest touch as smart as lizards' sting!
[Within]  My lord, is the lady ready?
Some private speech with you.
When from St. Alban's we do make return,
Stain'd with the variation of each soil
die a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I
What a brazen-faced varlet art thou, to deny thou
far out of his knowledge!
To her unworthiness: it nothing steads us
Whilst I, by looking on the praise of him,
At Mariana's house to-night. Her cause and yours
My people did expect my hence departure
Dost thou know her by my gazing on her, and yet
Come home with me to supper, and I'll lay
Walks, like contempt, alone. More of our fellows.
house to put his head in? such may rail against
Here, boy, to Pallas: here, to Mercury:
riding to London with fat purses: I have vizards
Sir, the event
Is your displeasure with the king.
Say as you think, and speak it from your souls,
Here, here she comes. I'll have a bout with thee,
Nor fearing me as if I were her father,
Where it should guard. O war, thou son of hell,
As if but now they waxed pale for woe:
The sessions shall proceed: this is mere falsehood.
No thought can think, nor tongue of mortal tell.
Doth my lord call?
That God had lent us but this only child,
In every place, save here in Italy.
So noble a master fall'n! All gone! and not
How now there!
to corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon
Of yonder knight?
But if I tell how these two did co-act,
The good is oft interred with their bones,
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
year, though Hero had turned nun, if it had not been
If she be made of white and red,
That you might well have signified the same
When I should mount with wings of victory:
I thought to crush him in an equal force,
What zeal, what fury hath inspired thee now?
I see old Gaunt alive, O, then, my father,
Noble tribunes,
Two props of virtue for a Christian prince,
Yes, faith, it is my cousin's duty to make curtsy
Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly used,
take cold. Holla, ho! Curtis.
I am ignorant in what I am commanded.
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes
I'll present myself. Peace to the lords of Tyre!
Cut off the proud'st conspirator that lives.
Myself am struck in years, I must confess,
O, let the vile world end,
No rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.
We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
O, sir!
O, no, for the duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves
But this same Cassio, though he speak of comfort
With ears that sweep away the morning dew,
And that no lawful means can carry me
Antiochus and his daughter dead,
My father watches: O sir, fly this place,
'Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick
Nor read the secrets in't.
I think so too. But you shall find, the band that
Re-enter Servant
Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock:
My troublous dream this night doth make me sad.
Ay, as an ostler, that for the poorest piece
Exit
A fault on us, your tribunes, that we laboured,
Are heavy orisons 'gainst this poor wretch!
The mayor is here at hand: intend some fear,
Is she a Capulet?
It did always seem so to us: but now, in the
But I will tarry, the fool will stay,
And a clear life ensuing.
Ay, and brought off the field: your cause of sorrow
he must be weighed rather by her value than his own,
See you these, husband? do not these fair yokes
From camp to camp through the foul womb of night
So well as by reflection, I, your glass,
No, madam, it is too sharp.
Madam, I trust, not so.
them prepare dinner.
Aside
Into life's flower again!
But he's deceived, we are in readiness.
her to her heart that she might no more be in danger
He hath got his friend with child.
Hath he seen majesty? Isis else defend,
How long within this wood intend you stay?
purses go by the moon and the seven stars, and not
Mine honest friend,
I'll send him certain word of my success.
My best Camillo! We must disguise ourselves.
How now? moody?
makes her story true, even to the point of her
Some six or seven, who did hide their faces
So many hours must I contemplate,
A new hell in himself.
Exit LUCIUS
Exeunt DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, and CLAUDIO
Antiochus, I thank thee, who hath taught
And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
I have made my way through more impediments
What we are come about, and by no means
Did I forget that by the house of York
And here from gracious England have I offer
'The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals,
Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other
more eloquence in a sugar touch of them than in the
She is not worth thee, then. What years, i' faith?
Not here, sir!
This proves you wise and rich, for in my eye,--
Gives her fame which never dies.
That e'er I proved thee false or fear'd thy faith.
Pointing to Goneril
she comes in the habit of a light wench: and thereof
So runs against all reason.
He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd
marry, once before he won it of me with false dice,
Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun,
a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded
Intends you for his swift ambassador,
Broach'd with the steely point of Clifford's lance,
A messenger from CAESAR.
drudge: he that comforts my wife is the cherisher
Enter VIOLA, a Captain, and Sailors
Who is it thou dost call usurper, France?
Go put it to the haste.
I am fear'd in field and town:
The present benefit which I possess,
My shroud of white, stuck all with yew,
Out, and alas! that was my lady's voice.
We both have fed as well, and we can both
Some tender money to me, some invite me,
If Tamora entreat him, then he will:
No, my good lord, it was by private message.
The loyalty well held to fools does make
A prince call'd Hector,--Priam is his father,--
And so with me: the great Antiochus,
That this fair action may on foot be brought.
Can be at once, shall step by step attend
So when he opens his purse to give us our reward,
And you can witness with me this is true.
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
For servants must their masters' minds fulfil.
That I may see again.
Helen and Hero hildings and harlots, Thisbe a grey
Which he did wave against my throat, I have ta'en
I'll have: but how, when Antony is gone
Without repugnancy? If there be
His coward lips did from their colour fly,
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
Yes: and you heard what the other told me?
No blame belongs to thee.
but as thou art prince, I fear thee as I fear the
would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
My noble lords, for those that tame wild horses
He humbly prays your speedy payment.
Horner, for saying that the Duke of York was rightful
But this our purpose now is twelve month old,
No, I pray thee speak in sober judgment.
What!
Neglected, rather,
'Pless my soul, how full of chollors I am, and
Eastcheap. The Boar's-Head Tavern.
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
And they watch too. Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards,
This is not well, rash and unbridled boy.
bottom were as deep as hell, I should down. I had
But where's the money?
As dice are to be wish'd by one that fixes
Took her own way. The manner of their deaths?
A goodly day not to keep house, with such
seventh cause.
And turn'd into the extremity of love.
And spit upon my Jewish gaberdine,
Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the
Sent he to Macduff?
Not so, Sir Walter: we'll withdraw awhile.
Or sell my title for a glorious grave.
Stay, father! for that noble hand of thine,
It is a pretty mocking of the life.
On Navarre and his book-men, for here 'tis abused.
Good sir, be not offended.
It hath no end.
That which none else can utter. By this marriage,
And yet I would that you would answer me.
ask you what it means, say you this:
Marry, come up, my dish of chastity with rosemary and bays!
So, master mayor: these gates must not be shut
Knocking within
To visit him to-morrow or next day:
Should yet be hungry! Common mother, thou,
Command the health of it? No, thou proud dream,
Farewell, hostess.
And when the doctor spies his vantage ripe,
I am perplex'd, and know not what to say.
Wert thou not beggar. Willing misery
As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
Now, good sir,
No, it is false, if it is a pick-purse.
Who stock'd my servant? Regan, I have good hope
Till the prince came, who parted either part.
Now, divine air! now is his soul ravished! Is it
No night is now with hymn or carol blest:
That rises like the issue of a king,
meant, Captain Macmorris, peradventure I shall think
And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye,
Pour all your tears! I am your sorrow's nurse,
Is yond despised and ruinous man my lord?
Toward Calais: grant him there, there seen,
Exit DEMETRIUS
Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius,
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
On any plot of ground in Christendom.
Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior:
Then you say as I say, for, I am sure, he is not Hector.
Mistress Ford, your sorrow hath eaten up my
whipping, and hanging.
The archbishop.
Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.
Ay, sir, what of him?
Things small as nothing, for request's sake only,
Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself:
I make not, but foresee.
penned, I have taken great pains to con it. Good
Re-enter third Servingman
Gives me superfluous death.
Saying, 'Cousin Toby, my fortunes having cast me on
By that false woman, as this king by thee.
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
Exit
Do you mark that, my lord?
Now thou and I are new in amity,
Do not torment me: Oh!
Enter TRANIO brave, and BIONDELLO
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Enter Clown and FABIAN
O Lord, sir! spare not me.
In your embowell'd bosoms, this foul swine
Nay, take my life and all, pardon not that:
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
You said the enemy would not come down,
directly and truly, I would think thee an honest
But if I thrive, the gain of my attempt
Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.
May suffer alteration, on mine honour,
What means my niece Lavinia by these signs?
twenty lascivious turtles ere one chaste man.
That, through the sight I bear in things to love,
Yet let not this make thee be bloody-minded,
Exit
Let your study
For scorn at first makes after-love the more.
RICHARD
Thou hadst been toss'd from wrong to injury,
Which thou owedst yesterday.
Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
Exeunt
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
Sends you his princely commendations,
Are you so brave? I'll have you talked with anon.
to utter it.
For I am arm'd so strong in honesty
I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly.
How much is it?
your father.
them down again, for the man must not be hanged till
Alarum. Excursions. Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
The King of Naples and Jerusalem,
A knave teach me my duty!
COUNTESS
Made daily motions for our home return:
That shall be scoured in his rancorous heart
Exeunt
Bid them repair to the market place, where I,
'Lo, Jupiter is yonder, dealing life!'
Mere fathers of their garments, whose constancies
You are the better at proverbs, by how much 'A
For which I razed my likeness. Now, banish'd Kent,
To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose:
To anger him we'll have the bear again, and we will
This mutiny were better put in hazard,
Be thus when thou art dead, and I will kill thee,
themselves. O thou great thunder-darter of Olympus,
That valiant Clifford, with his rapier's point,
Saw'st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good
Is not much miss'd, but with his friends:
Go you, and call my fool hither.
Go to, sir: tell me, do you know Madam Silvia?
That my ability may undergo
Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
Kill, kill, kill, kill, kill him!
Thy state is taken for a joined-stool, thy golden
You must, as we do, gratify this gentleman,
Advantage feeds him fat, while men delay.
To whisper Wolsey,--here makes visitation:
Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart,
How know'st thou this?
Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber:
So, haply, are they friends to Antony.
Where?
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
Bait the hook well, this fish will bite.
Mark Antony shall say I am not well,
stocks, i' the common stocks, for a witch.
ALONSO, SEBASTIAN  and c. draw their swords
Let the supposed fairies pinch him sound
Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!
Wash my fierce hand in's heart. Go you to the city,
By saying that a costard was broken in a shin.
Or any other ground inhabitable,
Render to me some corporal sign about her,
Made me to blame in memory.
Vailing her high-top lower than her ribs
The hateful mansion.
If by the way they be not fought withal.
And in the height of this bath, when I was more than
Such as were grown to credit by the wars,
Nay, tarry, I'll go along with thee
And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love:
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Therefore to's seemeth it a needful course,
That I came with no ill intent, for to me
The resignation of thy state and crown
Be not to be a strumpet, I am none.
'Good friend,' quoth he,
From our companion thrown into his grave,
Methinks I see a quickening in his eye.
For you shall hence upon your wedding-day:
I will, my lord.
Dismiss his power, he means to visit us,
Indeed, I never shall be satisfied
men and gives them suits of durance, he that sets up
Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
And from that torment I will free myself,
For thou exist'st on many a thousand grains
Sings
For a quart of ale is a dish for a king.
Claudio die to-morrow or no?
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
Therefore my merchandise makes me not sad.
Dost thou look up?
Skulking in corners? wishing clocks more swift?
To the prince and his bookmates.
I praise God for you.
Reignier, Duke of Anjou, doth take his part,
Thou never shalt hear herald any more.
Exit
To steel a strong opinion to themselves?
Now, my young guest, methinks you're allycholly: I
As I have set it down.
To my inheritance of free descent.
Hush, master! here's some good pastime toward:
Marry, to say she came to seek you there. You shall
That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, I
The meat it feeds on, that cuckold lives in bliss
Why, this is to have a name in great men's
That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.
And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.
Dies
Call Warwick patron and be penitent?
Come, therefore, let us fly while we may fly:
Whose blush doth thaw the consecrated snow
Peace! count the clock.
You and you no cross shall part:
Quite from the main opinion he held once
I am sorry that your leisure serves you not.
Of all rejoindure, forcibly prevents
And manacle the bear-ward in their chains,
For your expenses and sufficient charge,
deuce-ace amounts to.
As low as to the fiends!'
This is too long.
Let our best heads
Good even, good Master What-ye-call't: how do you,
Thy modesty can beg.
Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius
And seek for grace. What a thrice-double ass
short daughter.
Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
Let them be free, marry them to your heirs?
himself fears it not from another: let your general
That not another comfort like to this
Plead a new state in thy unrivall'd merit,
What means do you make to him?
O Iago!
Through Gloucestershire, by which account,
gelding, than my wife with herself, then she plots,
That she is bound in honour still to do
Make soft thy trenchant sword, for those milk-paps,
Why speak'st thou not? what ransom must I pay?
That all but we enjoy, for how can we,
Who lies i' the second chamber?
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
Ay, forsooth, I have spoke with her and we have a
Or I mistake you: O, would her name were Grace!
ACT I
'But a drum'! is't 'but a drum'? A drum so lost!
a companion of the king's, who is intituled, nomi-
Had spread their cursed deed, and honour'd name
Good sir,--
My good Lysander!
And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood
One might interpret.
In such a just and charitable war.
He puts on sackcloth, and to sea. He bears
Exeunt JULIET and Nurse
I pray you, tell it.
What you must say, that he shall not perceive
Play the men.
With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
Divinest creature, Astraea's daughter,
Plot some deuce of further misery,
No, indeed, sir, not of a pin, you are therein in
Saw his heroical seed, and smiled to see him,
Ay, he was porn at Monmouth, Captain Gower. What
They laugh at. O my mother, mother! O!
I am always bound to you.
As I could pick my lance.
She was a widow,--
and whatever praises itself but in the deed, devours
But though we think it so, it is no matter:
To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
he is in the wane, but yet, in courtesy, in all
Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
and what delight shall she have to look on the
Stoop, then, and wash. How many ages hence
I care not:
A thousand thanks, and pray 'em take their pleasures.
Bold of your worthiness, we single you
Good night, my noble lord.
No, sir, I warrant you.
Used intercession to obtain a league,
Wear it myself. Follow, good cousin Warwick:
An it had not fallen flat-long.
Music and a song within: 'Come away, come away,'  and c
Glancing an eye of pity on his losses,
Good uncle, help to order several powers
therefore be of good cheer, for truly I think you
Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My
Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art
And make two pasties of your shameful heads,
Follows singing
Exit
To stoop in such a case.
Impudent strumpet!
That their hot blood may spin in English eyes,
reasonable demands.
See what a rent the envious Casca made:
And think with wagging of your tongue to win me,
that oath, let me turn monster: therefore, my
Ay, marry, sweeting, if we could do that,
And see the cities and the towns defaced
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
Making and marring fortunes. You did know
Exeunt OTHELLO, LODOVICO, and Attendants
And my consent ne'er ask'd herein before!
Be the jacks fair within, the jills fair without,
What comfort to this great decay may come
Nay, I will give thee a kiss: now pray thee, love, stay.
upon thee!
DON
Fear not our care, sir.
borrowed, three of four times, lived well and in
Indeed, I have had earnest: but I cannot with
Cannot make better note.
Can Oxford, that did ever fence the right,
Fair sir, I pity her
I may command where I adore,
pursue him with any further revenge?
I have no power upon you, hers you are.
Here, hard by: stand close.
To see her coronation be perform'd.
'tis not to come, if it be not to come, it will be
Only she comes too short: that I profess
the hangman boys in the market-place: and then I
All studies here I solemnly defy,
Why, what should you fear?
That is not the duke's letter, sir, that is an
At whose request the king hath pardon'd them,
I'ld wish no better choice, and think me rarely wed.
By every syllable a faithful verity:
And yet his trespass, in our common reason--
For oaths are straws, men's faiths are wafer-cakes,
Partly that I have need of such a youth
disposition to the charge of a star! My
But that he's well and will be shortly here.
Whose soldier now, under whose blessed cross
I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.
Whether I blush or no: howbeit, I thank you.
Exit
Are you my wife and will not call me husband?
Be not so hasty to confound my meaning:
Like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul.
Enter GLOUCESTER, with his Serving-men in blue coats
The proudest he that holds up Lancaster,
And call us wretches, orphans, castaways
BISHOP
[Aside]          I do suspect you, madam,
Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense,
Exit LUCIUS
Yet witness what you hear we did intend:
By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
Do hiss me into madness.
Will much impeach the justice of his state,
Come, sir, come, sir, come, sir, foh, sir! Why, you
O, fear me not.
And blessed shall he be that doth revolt
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
A kind heart he hath: a woman would run through
But how or in what place I do not know.
No matter, then, who see it,
Come, come, no longer will I be a fool,
Exit
I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne Page,
Now is it Rome indeed and room enough,
And king o'er him and all that he enjoys:
A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,
I fear we should have seen decipher'd there
stuck in ears: you might have pinched a placket, it
Come, I'll do for thee what I can, come your ways.
With cautelous baits and practise.
Submission, Dauphin! 'tis a mere French word,
A good old commander and a most kind gentleman: I
have saved my life.'Zounds, I am afraid of this
Neither call the giddiness of it in question, the
And rouse from sleep that fell anatomy
Rather your eyes must with his judgment look.
For one being sued to, one that humbly sues,
If haply you my father do suspect
Where peremptory Warwick now remains:
If they return in their own shapes to woo?
And will with deeds requite thy gentleness:
Whoa ho! ho, father Page!
So tell the pope, all reverence set apart
to be known a reasonable creature. Who is his
As much or more would we ourselves complain:
By so much shall I falsify men's hopes,
Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb,
Enter ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
Drops earliest to the ground, and so let me
The hart.
Read them, and know, I know your worthiness.
They are infected, in their hearts it lies,
Be not acknown on 't, I have use for it.
That it doth hate what gets it.
Enter KING RICHARD III
thou couldst, thou wouldst find me such a plain king
Sound on into the drowsy race of night,
Why look you still so stern and tragical?
The knife that made it.
Thrives in our idleness.
Anne the jest, how my father stole two geese out of
A sixth, a tenth, letting them thrive again
This is the excellent foppery of the world, that,
A fool of thee: depart.
But may imagine how the bird was dead,
How say you by the French lord, Monsieur Le Bon?
This factious bandying of their favourites,
reason with them.
Know you the man?
Thy gory locks at me.
That stands upon the swell at full of tide,
me to ridiculous smiling. O, pardon me, my stars!
Caesar: and that, having in Sicily
He'll never hear him.
But for thy world enjoying but this land,
Nature's own shape, of bud, bird, branch, or berry,
I have a suit which you must not deny me,
Ho, by your leave!
You know a sword employ'd is perilous,
I should to Plashy too,
Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick the
Cricket, to Windsor chimneys shalt thou leap:
[Aside to DUMAIN]  Loves her by the foot,--
Much will be seen in that. In the mean time,
This tiger-footed rage, when it shall find
Exit
facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--
How that a life was but a flower
That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.
Exeunt
know himself.
Sir, are not you my father?
I am bound to your niece, sir, I mean, she is the
Whiles I go tell my lord the emperor
Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man
Pardon's the word to all.
she for a woman, God bless us.
What say you, lords? Why, this was quite forgot.
Haply been absent then.
All your true followers out.
And, for I am richer than to hang by the walls,
And when a soldier was the theme, my name
Exeunt
herself with laughing.
O, where is faith? O, where is loyalty?
Wiped off, in honourable keeping her.
Most certain. Sister, welcome: pray you,
Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain,
paring, and so dies with feeding his own stomach.
Of our rank feud: but the just gods gainsay
Quiet consummation have,
Says it is past her cure.
And, now the matter grows to compromise,
But, what follow'd?
Follow such creatures. That you may, fair lady,
Hop as light as bird from brier,
Are counsellors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful,
For locking me out of my doors by day.
name, sirrah?
[Aside]  I would fain see this meeting.
I would have peace and quietness, but the fool will
To build his fortune I will strain a little,
To crush our old limbs in ungentle steel:
Must be fulfill'd, and I attend with patience.
It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly:
But for thy sword and fortune, trod upon them,--
Earth's increase, foison plenty,
the sea or weather.
Mirth cannot move a soul in agony.
And that shall be the ransom for their fault.
To have his title live in Aquitaine,
Ho! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards,
Good your highness, patience.
No marvel, though you bite so sharp at reasons,
Uncleanly scruples! fear not you: look to't.
Fair one, all goodness that consists in bounty
Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,
Here in the court, of all he dies possess'd,
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
'Tis Hymen peoples every town,
The greatest is behind.
Your soldiers use him as the grace 'fore meat,
My surveyor is false, the o'er-great cardinal
I say, a moving grove.
Her sight did ravish, but her grace in speech,
SCENE II. Paris. The KING's palace.
Give him tending,
It must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
Should sunder such sweet friends. Here in her hairs
tinkers at this time of night? Do ye make an
She hath pursued conclusions infinite
That Cassio's not alive.
have a fine hawk for the bush. Shall it be so?
[To ISABELLA]  If he be like your brother, for his sake
Ay, that.
What dowry shall I have with her to wife?
With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
I was sure your lordship did not give it me.
And stop their mouths, if they begin to cry.
His daughter first, and then in sequel all,
For certain, sir, he is not: I have a file
She takes upon her bravely at first dash.
Why, boy, how is it?
kind master.
my spiteful execrations. Then there's Achilles, a
We sent unto the Temple, unto his chamber,
It is your husband mock'd you with a husband.
Stand for your own, unwind your bloody flag,
That yet can do thee office? If thou hast,
him, and on that vice in him will my revenge find
The savage bull may, but if ever the sensible
So he did, my lord:
So then it seems your most offenceful act
Enter PUCK
That I was constant Cimber should be banish'd,
And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.
To whom he gave these words, 'O, father abbot,
'Tis sweet at first to acquire,--after this process,
A shop of all the qualities that man
does lend articles?
Enter Messenger
there is such odds in the man. In pity of the
I am afraid my daughter will run mad,
So help me God, as I have watch'd the night,
To burn the lodging where you use to lie
Exeunt
He has strangled
And fire us hence like foxes. Wipe thine eyes,
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
Raising his voice
Where, if you bring not Marcius, we'll proceed
Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage,
Call hither Clifford! bid him come amain,
Take leave and part, for you must part forthwith.
gentleman's saying.
them with a most Christian-like fear.
Son to the queen, after his own report,
By flatterers, and what they will inform,
That makes the wappen'd widow wed again,
And passion, having my best judgment collied,
I'll swear for 'em.
From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her,
I will conclude to hate her, nay, indeed,
I am undone: there is no living, none,
I am not mad: this hair I tear is mine,
Spies of the Volsces
Rebellion's head, rise never till the wood
Well, go thy ways, old lad, for thou shalt ha't.
Yea, without stop, didst let thy heart consent,
That till the father rid his hands of her,
Where youth, and cost, and witless bravery keeps.
In a new channel, fair and evenly,
my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for
Tell you the lady what she is to do,
Know you of this taxation?
And to be boy eternal.
Thou hast hit it, for there's no better sign of a
my grace. Rich she shall be, that's certain, wise,
Or add a royal number to the dead,
We were the first and dearest of your friends.
If this will not suffice, it must appear
That will with due decision make us know
What's Antony? The god of Jupiter.
She will not fail, for lovers break not hours,
He murder cries and help from Athens calls.
Carry me to the gaol!
Good master secretary,
Dive, thoughts, down to my soul: here
Chiefly i' the world, more laugh'd at, that I should
Take thou my soldiers, prisoners, patrimony,
With whom I am accused, I do confess
Thou hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me
Then keep thy vow, sirrah, when thou meetest the fellow.
Believe't, till I wept too.
Now help, or woe betide thee evermore!
A prince of power.
True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.
Who now reprovest me for it,--
Your discontenting father strive to qualify
and the worst fall that ever fell, I hope I shall
With their refusal, both observe and answer
birth, beauty, good shape, discourse, manhood,
to her by oath, and the nuptial appointed: between
Sir Proteus, your father calls for you:
If he for gold will give us any food:
no true traveller: you are more saucy with lords
This ring, good sir, alas, it is a trifle!
My physic says 'ay.'
I conjure thee, by all the parts of man
A daughter?
Our general doth salute you with a kiss.
For many so arrive at second masters,
Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
For I will buz abroad such prophecies
Thou comest not to be made a scorn in Rome:
Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
To thee be worship! and thy saints for aye
Come, sir, dispatch. If thou couldst, doctor, cast
To bind him to remember my good will,
Repair those violent harms that my two sisters
Too indirect for long continuance.
'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
You would have follow'd.
No longer than we well could wash our hands
Descends
Enter a third Gentleman
Whereon Hyperion's quickening fire doth shine,
I could not find him at the Elephant:
With this dead-killing news!
As any ear can hear. Come, let's not weep.
With only suffering stain by him, for him
Or a dry wheel grate on the axle-tree,
Go tell the lords o' the city I am here:
'Tis our mad sister, I do know her voice.
Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, DEIPHOBUS, and DIOMEDES
If the great gods be just, they shall assist
[Reads]  'that shallow vassal,'--
'Tis not enough our foes are this time fled,
In russet yeas and honest kersey noes:
To him and his usurp'd authority.
Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted,
On your suggestion.
together and thrown over the shoulders like an
Say, gentle princess, would you not suppose
executioner, who in his office lacks a helper: if
Survives, to whom, thyself art witness,
A quiet night, and my good mistress will
that I were a man! What, bear her in hand until they
I never robb'd the soldiers of their pay,
That mouldeth goblins swift as frenzy's thoughts.
wife is my mother.
How do you, pretty lady?
To be my henchman.
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
when thou needest him, there thou shalt find him.
That all the eanlings which were streak'd and pied
As gaming, my lord.
Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
O upright, just, and true-disposing God,
Quake in the present winter's state and wish
an usurped beard, I say, put money in thy purse. It
Or all of it, with our displeasure pieced,
And answer was return'd that he will come.
In this our fabric, if that they--
Now puts the drowsy and neglected act
And sail so expeditious that shall catch
True, he was so: I know the cause too: he'll lay
give me your hand. How does your drum?
It is against my heart.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
With whose envenomed and fatal sting,
Exit an attendant
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
The queen hath best success when you are absent.
He that had wit would think that I had none,
Truly, sir, I think you'll hardly win her.
And I, tough senior, as an appertinent title to your
thou ask me why, sufficeth, my reasons are both good
Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile!
Lest in our need he might infect another
Our purpose to them: and to our noble consul
Beshrew me, sir, but if he make this good,
For he is bound to sea and stays but for it.
Exeunt
[To Provost]  Stay, sir, stay awhile.
Hate all, curse all, show charity to none,
But, sirrah, not for my sake, but your master's, I advise
When foreign princes shall be certified
SCENE IV. France. The KING'S palace.
Call you this chiding?
terms of my honour precise: I, I, I myself
Good father, tell her that she and my aunt Percy
Our overplus of shipping will we burn,
To think my poverty is treacherous.
I muse we met not with the Dauphin's grace,
As ignorance made drunk. But yet, I say,
Or any kind of light,
SCENE VI. The forest.
O mistress, villany hath made mocks with love,
worlds suffer,
Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! stir them
Novi hominem tanquam te: his humour is lofty, his
lily-livered, action-taking knave, a whoreson,
Master Fer! I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret
A merchant of incomparable wealth.
What canst thou wish thine enemy to be?
What's her name?
And so, God give you quiet rest to-night!
Which you do live upon, and fit it is,
Troilus methinks mounted the Troyan walls
There is the playhouse now, there must you sit:
Besides, our nearness to the king in love
Hum!
he have caught the Benedick, it will cost him a
thou not the air of the court in these enfoldings?
O, serve me well, and teach yourselves that duty!
me, for every reason excites to this, that my lady
Three days before: but this from rumour's tongue
Her assured credit. Blessed live you long!
And given unto the house of York such head
I hope my noble lord esteems me honest.
Such as seafaring men provide for storms,
Of any king's in Europe. I do think
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
Among the nettles at the elder-tree
The prescript of this scroll: our fortune lies
Though ne'er so black, say they have angels' faces.
On sweetest flowers, yet they poison breed.
And therefore 'tis called a sensible tale: and this
What now ensues, to the judgment of your eye
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
A man I am cross'd with adversity,
To go about my preparation.
Shall thy good uncle, and thy brother Lucius,
Lysander and myself will fly this place.
If not, the city being but of small defence,
where it is.
I'll fetch them, sir.
Good sister, let us dine and never fret:
By your leave, ho!
What heaven hath given him,--let some graver eye
They shouted thrice: what was the last cry for?
For, by my soul, were there worse end than death,
And scarr'd the moon with splinters: here I clip
And all together, with the Duke of Suffolk,
And in no sense is meet or amiable.
What kind o' man is he?
Which, in the tender of a wholesome weal,
And I'll repair the misery thou dost bear
Surprised! by whom?
And hath in his effect a voice potential
Strikes him
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
The gods forbid else!
O, sir, his lackey, for all the world caparisoned
'Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral,
Killing swine.
You clasp young Cupid's tables. Good news, gods!
Of him that hears it, never in the tongue
What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?
I feel my heart new open'd. O, how wretched
To one that can my part in him advertise,
Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
To trust us in your business, we are ready
bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the gaol: we
How should I be revenged?
Nay, what hope
To young Octavius of the state of things.
have lost, the disgrace we have digested, which in
Dost thou hear?
Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do lie
We'll not offend one stomach with our play.
the form of a beast. O Jove, a beastly fault! And
And graze in commons.
Thou now request'st but moonshine in the water.
Until a time may serve: for present vengeance,
Into the service of the time and was
Or o' mine either?
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
Why, alas, what's the matter?
Make that demand of the prover. It suffices me thou
Prithee now,
Disdain to call us lord, and Picardy
There was, mine host, an old fat woman even now with
whore, a good quarrel to draw emulous factions
To FABIAN
Most heavy day!
Exeunt
Well guess'd, believe me, for that was my meaning.
would we had so ended! but you, sir, altered that,
Took stand for idle speculation:
A sword, whose temper I intend to stain
We two in great amazedness will fly:
That bear the shapes of men, how have you run
And to be talk'd with in sincerity,
That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune,
That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.
Next to thyself and my young rover, he's
What, look'd he frowningly?
Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, Soldiers, Drum, and Trumpets
Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, is
I wonder now how yonder city stands
Then both, or one, or any thing thou wilt.
come, come, come, come, give me your hand. What's
she's dead,
If then the king your father will restore
questions?
O, ay, and pities them.
led my ragamuffins where they are peppered: there's
Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
Unbind my hands, I'll pull them off myself,
A power I have, but of what strength and nature
Let me not be pent up, sir: I will fast, being loose.
And every man hence to his idle bed,
Is in the very May-morn of his youth,
Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I
By Jupiter, an angel! or, if not,
Yea, with a splitting power, and made to tremble
Enter LEONATO, HERO, and BEATRICE, with a Messenger
Ay, for these slips have made him noted long:
A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear
Stand forth, and with bold spirit relate what you,
But twice or thrice was 'Proteus' written down.
ANTIPHOLUS
swaggering accent sharply twanged off, gives manhood
one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion?
SCENE II. The same. The Capitol.
whoreson, obscene, grease tallow-catch,--
Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son,
O, on my soul, my cousin is belied!
I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a
Out of my sight!
Hence, therefore, every leader to his charge,
Immediate are my needs, and my relief
But now will canker-sorrow eat my bud
Trow you whither I am going? To Baptista Minola.
Who did hoot him out o' the city.
Or, wing'd with fervor of her love, she's flown
Dishonourable boy!
Is he not able to discharge the money?
My most redoubted father,
of losing.
Even in the bosom of our adversaries.
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth
My duty pricks me on to utter that
sun practising behavior to his own shadow this half
Have travail'd in the great shower of your gifts,
What friendship may I do thee?
And not from one opposed.
Among the thorns and dangers of this world.
To whom in favour she shall give the day,
As to take up mine honour's pawn, then stoop:
The very doors and windows savour vilely.
Flourish. Enter KING LEWIS XI, his sister BONA,  his Admiral, called BOURBON, PRINCE EDWARD, QUEEN  MARGARET, and OXFORD. KING LEWIS XI sits, and riseth up again
Re-enter CASSIO, with him MONTANO and Gentlemen, servants following with wine
But suck them up to the topmast. A kind of conquest
But that I am bound in charity against it!
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
Re-enter Provost
That Angelo's forsworn, is it not strange?
When all aloud the wind doth blow
The jury, passing on the prisoner's life,
And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
Yet execute thy wrath in me alone,
Were you in doubt, sir, that you asked her?
Enter HAMLET, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
Cupid at the flight, and my uncle's fool, reading
Alas poor York! but that I hate thee deadly,
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
Brought you this letter, gentlemen?
As well as Lewis of France, or the Earl of Warwick,
With what thou else call'st thine. If thou refuse
Tush, my good lord, this superficial tale
The powers of us may serve so great a day
Not so, I do beseech your majesty.
against him: if thou canst cuckold him, thou dost
Call thee to answer.
Now his important blood will nought deny
Prosperity's the very bond of love,
For so he said he would: I hear him near.
And by the hazard of the spotted die
at curfew, and walks till the first cock, he gives
I am sorry for't.
Show me a villain that hath done a rape,
Since he hath got the jewel that I loved,
That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long,
That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave
Your mother lives a witness to that vow--
And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea,
And of buxom valour, hath, by cruel fate,
price they will.
The duke was dumb and could not speak a word.
his helm more hacked than Hector's, and how he looks,
It were convenient you had such a devil:
To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,
Ambassador to the emperor, you made bold
I'll pheeze you, in faith.
Not letting it decline on the declined,
York and young Rutland could not satisfy.
Shall marry her at Pentapolis. And now,
'Twill be recorded for a precedent,
I have almost forgot the taste of fears,
Some mumble-news, some trencher-knight, some Dick,
To be Count Malvolio!
He is my prize, I will not look upon.
With some fine colour that may please the eye
To feast upon whole thousands of the French.
They think they are mine, and though train'd
the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
Marry, and did, sir, namely, no time to recover hair
Unlikely wonders, how these vain weak nails
My lord,--
For me as for you?
Most welcome home!
Patience herself would startle at this letter
Pluck the grave wrinkled senate from the bench,
Virtue and that part of philosophy
I can no more.
Since I may say 'Now lie I like a king.'
Whose he is we are, and that is, Caesar's.
What man is there so much unreasonable,
It is an office of the gods to venge it,
And whispers in mine ear, 'Go not till he speak.'
Of that wide gap, since it is in my power
That you have such a February face,
The sin upon my head, dread sovereign!
He that conceals him, death.
Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
That neither in our hearts nor outward eyes
Awaked you not with this sore agony?
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER and KENT
Say, then, to Caesar,
If the good truth were known.
What is the fourth?
Because the king is certainly possess'd
petition of monarchs. Here comes your father.
To County Paris, to prepare him up
humour-letter: I will keep the havior of reputation.
Crave leave to view these ladies and entreat
thou canst: if sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt
Now it's twenty-seven: every gash was an enemy's grave.
So long attended thee. If thou wert honourable,
Art thou to break into this woman's mood,
I pray you all, stand up.
I meant to rectify my conscience,--which
Once more, Cesario,
The foot above the head.
My friends were poor, but honest, so's my love:
Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together,
Madam, the care I have had to even your content, I
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
Yet, I pray you:
speak for himself.
Since I am crept in favour with myself,
sea again, lay her off.
And, as we march, our strength will be augmented
You need not fear it, sir:
I have a mind presages me such thrift,
swoon when he showed me your handkerchief?
Who finds her, give her burying,
Nor I.
He is a man, and, Clifford, cope with him.
Soon may I hear and see him!
With prayers for the provider.
Sweet, rouse yourself, and the weak wanton Cupid
Thrice-worthy gentleman!
Dare he presume to scorn us in this manner?
Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,
But Pandarus,--O gods, how do you plague me!
An if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe.
That most pure spirit of sense, behold itself,
Do you neglect them?
'Do't: the letter
What is thy name? Is man so hateful to thee,
MARCUS strikes the dish with a knife
Here 'tis, this is it.
Some to the studious universities.
cripple. But this reasoning is not in the fashion to
subjects afore thee like a flock of wild-geese,
Alas, your too much love and care of me
You tallow-face!
I have with exact view perused thee, Hector,
He might have bought me at a common price:
'There dwelt a man in Babylon, lady, lady!'
Speak, Iachimo: I had you down and might
By'r lady, thirty years.
Exit
So we, well cover'd with the night's black mantle,
Rescue, fair lord, or else the day is lost!
For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.
They say, in great extremity, and fear'd
Hang 'em, slaves! I do not think the knight would
A friend.
In France, amongst a fickle wavering nation:
To dusty nothing, yet let memory,
What, sir?
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
Even to affright thee with the view thereof.
That sore to ride before him to the field.
His grief grew puissant and the strings of life
And pluck up drowned honour by the locks,
But wise men, folly-fall'n, quite taint their wit.
When my dimensions are as well compact,
Virtue and cunning were endowments greater
As, though on thinking on no thought I think,
And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
up--to a contaminated stale, such a one as Hero.
How far into the morning is it, lords?
I thought to have told thee of it, but I fear'd
That it was folly in me, thou mayst say,
Come, give me your flowers, ere the sea mar it.
Exit
To enter human hearing, from Argier,
Enter CASSIO and IAGO
Be great in act, as you have been in thought,
Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee
Hem them away.
Where am I? Where's my lord? What world is this?
Against the proclamation of thy passion,
It is no matter.
Who knows not where a wasp does
What say'st thou?
all the records of the realm: my mouth shall be
The king is not at the palace, he is gone aboard a
That is, not bestow my youngest daughter
rightly, can ever believe such impossible passages
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.
bill, warrant, quittance, or obligation, 'Armigero.'
GUILDENSTERN:
Those mouthed wounds, which valiantly he took
Come, Master Shallow, come, son Slender, in.
As give a crutch to the dead: but our count-cardinal
tell him, for conclusion, he hath betrayed his
Teach thy necessity to reason thus,
And how unwillingly I left the ring,
This to Apollo, this to the god of war,
Confirm'd by mutual joinder of your hands,
Is quite beyond mine arm, out of the blank
[Aside]
as pigeons bill, so wedlock would be nibbling.
Possess them not with fear, take from them now
Hence grew the general wreck and massacre,
Nay, be not angry, sir.
Were red-hot steel, to sear me to the brain!
That fallen am I in dark uneven way,
You owe this strange intelligence? or why
Hannibal! I respected with her before I was married
His name is Licio, born in Mantua.
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo, came I hither,
Which of your hands hath not defended Rome,
For if but once thou show me thy grey light,
the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
Which sometime hath his hour with every man.
And many unfrequented plots there are
This fester'd joint cut off, the rest rest sound,
The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile:
That bore thee at a burden two fair sons:
bawdy-house, they pick pockets.
A creature, that did bear the shape of man,
O my most gracious lord,
Exit
Unto these sorrows.
What villain madam?
Who gave me fresh array and entertainment,
They have been violent to me and mine.
A friend! what friend? your name, I pray you, friend?
Very strangely, they say.
My name is Roderigo.
[To KING RICHARD III]
Some bloody passion shakes your very frame:
To think, when thou shalt be disedged by her
Now we'll together, and the chance of goodness
O Troilus! Troilus!
Ye cannot reason almost with a man
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
I am no viper, yet I feed
But who comes here?
I think, Camillo?
Nay, if you strive--
lost hair of another man.
Indeed, my lord, it is a most absolute and excellent horse.
Marry, it is your brother's right hand.
From where he should begin and end, but will
Of wondrous virtues: sometimes from her eyes
Enter PERICLES, at one door, with all his train,  CLEON and DIONYZA, at the other. CLEON shows  PERICLES the tomb, whereat PERICLES makes  lamentation, puts on sackcloth, and in a mighty passion departs. Then exeunt CLEON and DIONYZA
But if you know not this, my manners tell me
a-field to-day?
The misery of Tarsus may be theirs.
Is yet unanswer'd. I will to your father:
Do give a life: no shepherdess, but Flora
So please my lord the duke and all the court
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
And show us to be watchers. Be not lost
of pebbles, that I was fain to draw mine honour in,
His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.
What's best to ask. Know'st him thou look'st on? speak,
Then take thine auld cloak about thee.
Ay, my lord,
Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
Be now produced and heard.
trick of it?
More feathers to our wings, for, God before,
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
If you should smile he grows impatient.
Ay, my lord,
For you serve knaves.
You shall be yet far fairer than you are.
Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness!
To youth and liberty.
My Lord of Westmoreland, and uncle Exeter,
His youngest daughter, beautiful Binaca,
Another yet! A seventh! I'll see no more:
some violets, but they withered all when my father
I fear we shall out-sleep the coming morn
Kneels
Marry, sir, I have matter in my head against you,
Thank me no thankings, nor, proud me no prouds,
Let it be known to him that we are here.
SCENE III. Fields near St. Alban's.
Who? Silvia?
We have, sir.
Hath told you Caesar was ambitious:
And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart,
With these ill tidings.
We have strict statutes and most biting laws.
Let her lie still and dream.
Alack, why thus?
It is not well done, mark you now take the tales out
And swear I got them in the Gallia wars.
That I return'd with simular proof enough
O base Hungarian wight! wilt thou the spigot wield?
With wanton Paris sleeps, and that's the quarrel.
But she received my dog?
valorous, and thrice-worthy signieur of England.
But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal
Macduff is fled to England.
My oath, and my profession: I protest,
In this close walk to satisfy myself,
Muffle your false love with some show of blindness:
You know it is the feast of Lupercal.
Kills TITUS
He gains by death that hath such means to die:
As who should say 'I am Sir Oracle,
I do beseech your majesty, impute his words
Ay, sir, so his mother says, if I may believe her.
Ay, sir, it is too true, God help the while!
And so far am I glad it so did sort
To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
The fields are near, and you are gallant grooms:
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Are ye advised? the
should not be conjoined, charge you, on your souls,
My babes were destined to a fairer death,
My heart was to thy rudder tied by the strings,
flowers and smile upon his fingers' ends, I knew
The fewer men, the greater share of honour.
But repetition of what thou hast marr'd,
O, these are barren tasks, too hard to keep,
Not a more cowardly rogue in all Bohemia: if you had
O knight thou lackest a cup of canary: when did I
The shirt of Nessus is upon me: teach me,
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow.
Exit
I stand on fire:
Exit CLAUDIO
To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
But, as we often see, against some storm,
O, had the monster seen those lily hands
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
as it hath power, but as it is suffered. Come to
O earth, which this blood drink'st revenge his death!
His army is a ragged multitude
praise for creating. If she had partaken of my
Can you inquire him out, and be edified by report?
Exit
Or we are Romans and will give you that
In peace and honour live Lord Titus long,
God knows how long it is I have to live,
Then be at peace except ye thirst for blood.
And whosoe'er gainsays King Edward's right,
Well, what is it? is it within reason and compass?
Set foot under thy table: tut, a toy!
Sir--I thank her--that:
and there's the humour of it. Adieu.
A cunning man did calculate my birth
'Tis pride that pulls the country down,
O Cassio, whence came this?
Not by might master'd but by special grace:
All villains that do stand by thee are pure.
Hail!
I have one friend alive, thou wouldst disprove me.
[To KING RICHARD III]
that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
While he was yet in Rome,
Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave,
present, the person of Moonshine. Then, there is
Can from his mother win the Duke of York,
SCENE IX. The Roman camp.
True, and yet it is said, labour in thy vocation,
Then make your garden rich in gillyvors,
What's there?
Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin
'Tis like enough, for I stay dinner there.
That worthied him, got praises of the king
There is no seeming mercy in the king.
Tush, fear not, man, we'll tip thy horns with gold
The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.
Shall dizzy with more clamour Neptune's ear
I came yonder from a great supper: the prince your
SCENE VI. The same. The DUKE'S palace.
His country's peace.
Behold, I have a weapon,
He is full of valour as of kindness,
And doth beget new courage in our breasts.
He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve--
In glittering golden characters express
Which is budded out,
Strike up the drum towards Athens! Farewell, Timon:
enough in his belly. Hold, there is twelve pence
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
I love her ten times more than e'er I did:
desperate ones, for a madman owes 'em.
Friends should associate friends in grief and woe:
By how much the estate is green and yet ungovern'd:
And, in conclusion,
He's traitor to the height.
Your reeking villany.
You the like loss!
'First of the king: what shall of him become?'
Your worship is deceived, the gown is made
How appears the fight?
I will hear that play,
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
door like a sheriff's post, and be the supporter to
They whistle
To come as humbly as they used to creep
Such goodness of your justice, that our soul
That is a fault.
Exeunt PISTOL, and French Soldier
O prudent discipline! From north to south:
going to bed, or kiln-hole, to whistle off these
insinuation, as it were, in via, in way, of
HERMIONE swoons
Enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
We breathed our counsel: but it pleased your highness
With sweet rehearsal of my morning's dream.
you, coach after coach, letter after letter, gift
How deep?
Comes Warwick, backing of the Duke of York,
O, not by much.
I extend my hand to him thus, quenching my familiar
Take thy lute, wench: my soul grows sad with troubles,
of, which imports to the kingdom so much
Where man doth not inhabit, you 'mongst men
The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower.
Exeunt
Convey me to my bed, then to my grave:
Why, man?
I'll tell him of you.
ANTIPHOLUS
Foolery, sir, does walk about the orb like the sun,
So will I never be: so may you miss me,
By my trot, I tarry too long. Od's me!
Made my name once more noble. Now his son,
Exeunt the followers of BASSIANUS
Noble Timon,
How now, fellow!
What, Octavia?
Well, let my deeds be witness of my worth.
I'll warrant you, 'tis as well:
the victory. I am sorry for her, as I have just
On their sustaining garments not a blemish,
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
Come, we'll inform them
faults I have committed to your worship and to give
blushes of hers must be quenched with some present practise.
Spirit,
Call thyself sister, sweet, for I am thee.
Here stand we both, and aim we at the best:
Nor is not, sure.
And dead men's cries do fill the empty air,
Successively from age to age, he built it?
At some time when his soaring insolence
O, stay and hear, your true love's coming,
him, mistaking his purpose, it would make a great
Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein.
Who wears my stripes impress'd upon him, that
Yes, that thou didst: didst thou see any thing?
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company:
Our battles join'd, and both sides fiercely fought:
But that's all one, our play is done,
To the Fool
Like free and honest men, our just opinions
Well hast thou lesson'd us, this shall we do.
However, yet there is no great breach, when it comes,
beholding to your wives for: but he comes armed in
But now thy beauty is proposed my fee,
Well may we fight for her whom, we know well,
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them
Command into obedience: fear and niceness--
bowler: but, for Alisander,--alas, you see how
Will you swear
And makes milch-kine yield blood and shakes a chain
In marriage, with a large and sumptuous dowry.
You think me an impostor: no, good faith,
Therefore Achilles: but, whate'er, know this:
Be noble to myself: but, hark thee, Charmian.
Round about her tomb they go.
Then well one more may fair Bianca have:
Lovers, to bed, 'tis almost fairy time.
Arms, arms, sword, fire! Corruption in the place!
that when thou art inclined to sleep.
Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of
How now, Sir Proteus! how now, Thurio!
Go with me, Silvius.
but even now. Whoa, ho, hoa!
If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
Exeunt Ghost and HAMLET
He shall submit, or I will never yield.
And fall thy edgeless sword: despair, and die!--
Deliver him to safety, and return,
And am I guerdon'd at the last with shame?
Using no other weapon but his name.
Accuse some innocent and forswear myself,
put in the book of virtue!
To be called into a huge sphere, and not to be seen
Have to you, but with thanks to God for such
Exit
As if we should forget we had no hands,
But with our sword we wiped away the blot,
What 'unjust'!
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
Consume your blood with sorrowing: you have
bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker?
I must not yield to any rites of love,
Look on thy country, look on fertile France,
Subscribes
The mighty Warwick, and did fight for me?
a beard of the general's cut and a horrid suit of
Nor purposed merit in futurity,
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
Sweet sir, you honour me.
Well fitted in arts, glorious in arms:
an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities, there
So to offend him still. This night's the time
Follow me, soldiers: we'll devise a mean
Well have we pass'd and now repass'd the seas
A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger
That stay his cure: their malady convinces
Do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical?
For the embracements even of Jove himself,
Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance,
that done, trudge with it in all haste, and carry
And fortify it strongly 'gainst the French:
Rest you fair, good signior,
By doing deeds of hospitality:
I free you from't. You are not to be taught
[Within]  Who's there that knocks so imperiously?
Nephew, what means this passionate discourse,
Hath my poor boy done aught but well,
BISHOP
And you, sir! Would you speak with me?
That has such people in't!
Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids
requests to thy friend.
A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the king.
and by my friends, I am abused: so that,
For, had the passions of thy heart burst out,
But is there no quick recreation granted?
My lord,--
I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts.
Right.
A Roman,
It is great morning. Come, away!--
So was I when your highness banish'd him:
SCENE V. Inverness. Macbeth's castle.
Under Sir Thomas Erpingham.
You know to-morrow is the wedding-day.
Re-enter Attendants with AARON
on't. Sot, didst see Dick surgeon, sot?
Exeunt FALSTAFF and ROBIN
Ha!
When expect you them?
But ever puny whipster gets my sword:
To QUEEN MARGARET
And many Jasons come in quest of her.
Let York be regent, I will yield to him.
'I shall beseech you'--that is question now,
Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain,
And Tom bears logs into the hall
Dost dialogue with thy shadow?
She never reprehended him but mildly,
Capitulate against us and are up.
That he would rather have Antonio's flesh
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
I would be trebled twenty times myself,
And quite divorce his memory from his part.
most homely shepherd, a man, they say, that from
And that which would appear offence in us,
Think what a chance thou changest on, but think
My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones,
Throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth,
And suffer'd me by the voice of slaves to be
She has robb'd me of my sword.
Plucking the grass, to know where sits the wind,
Die in his youth by like untimely violence!
pity to cast them away for nothing, though, between
after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich
You put me to forget a lady's manners,
Thou bid'st me beg: this begging is not strange.
Merely upon myself. Vexed I am
That English may as French, French Englishmen,
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
Is this wind westerly that blows?
Call'd Robin Goodfellow: are not you he
The man hath seen some majesty, and should know.
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh,
Will not King Richard let me speak with him?
Ay, a minced man: and then to be baked with no date
I warrant, good creature, wheresoe'er she is,
To let my tongue excuse all. What was purposed
And make my senses credit thy relation
Ay, and allay this thy abortive pride,
He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring
Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will!
With one man beckon'd from the rest below,
It is the cause. Yet I'll not shed her blood,
Nay, but speak not maliciously.
That makes her blood look out: good sooth, she is
Why, madam, have I offer'd love for this
Enchanting all that you put in.
Speak to great Caesar as he comes along.
Welcome, young man,
In drops of crimson blood.
fright, to be detected with a jealous rotten
We will spare for no wit, I warrant you, here's
He, when he hears of her, cannot refrain
She had disposed with Caesar, and that your rage
No longer stay.
Why, couldst thou perceive so much from her?
Exit HASTINGS
I must employ you in some business
'cuckoo' never so?
Welcome from Egypt, sir.
Of my child's love: I think she will be ruled
that every braggart shall be found an ass.
of heavy tedious penury, these Time ambles withal.
This music mads me, let it sound no more,
How often have I tempted Suffolk's tongue,
me, in requital whereof, henceforth carry your
Below their cobbled shoes. They say there's
that you know: if you will follow me, I will show
Worth seizure do we seize into our hands,
Half an hour since brought my report.
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
And having lost her breath, she spoke, and panted,
I did full hard forbear him. But, I pray you, sir,
Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this
Which till this time my tongue did ne'er pronounce,
Let us into the city presently
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
the camomile, the more it is trodden on the faster
Good sir, be patient.
over, the trompet sound the retreat. By my hand, I
And yet partake no venom, for his knowledge
Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries,
Nothing so kind, but something pitiful!
The gum down-roping from their pale-dead eyes
Did he write this?
What crows have peck'd them here. He brags
Him and his worth and our great need of him
him partake in the glory of the action: and not
all mine: and, Kate, when France is mine and I am
A long flourish till they come down
I pray thee, Buckingham, go and meet him,
And those things do best please me
O, but she is wise.
she's a changeling and none of your flesh and blood.
Soho, soho!
A Norman.
Complots of mischief, treason, villanies
And open this to Pericles. I do shame
Here of these shores?
His vices, you would say, there's no virtue whipped
Think you not that the powers we bear with us
Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully,
Sir, we are undone, these are the villains
ANTIPHOLUS
As blameful as the executioner?
Do you love my son?
I found it in my chamber:
Who died and left a female heir,
A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.
To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus
Swear, if thou darest.
But, soft! whom have we here?
Well, I am standing water.
Your highness
Out, damned spot! out, I say!--One: two: why,
And I am tied to be obedient,
not what I seek, show no colour for my extremity, let
It lends a lustre and more great opinion,
Enter the KING OF FRANCE, the DAUPHIN, the DUKE oF BOURBON, the Constable Of France, and others
The rich advantage of good exercise?
True, and a goose for his discretion.
I am a soldier, and unapt to weep,
bringings-forth, and he shall appear to the
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
Goes upright with his carriage. How's the day?
We cannot take this for answer, sir.
And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart
I am content to hear, for 'tis as easy
Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow.
The gods will diet me with. Prithee, away:
What was the second noise for?
Prick'd on by public wrongs sustain'd in France,
And you this glove. When shall I see you?
of herself is a good lady and would not have knaves
something to do with you. Come, you're a young
O, I have read it: it is heresy. Have you no more to say?
Read not my blemishes in the world's report:
to-day: you, to Sempronius: commend me to their
Then bring me to their sights, I'll bear thy blame
Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after supper,
provost, honesty and constancy: if I read it not
O'er France and all her almost kingly dukedoms,
The associates tend, and every thing is bent
Come weep with me, past hope, past cure, past help!
Go, call her in.
Welsh plood out of your pody, I can tell you that:
To read a lecture of them? If thou wouldst,
For these contempts.
I have heard I am a strumpet, and mine ear
And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet
And to defend ourselves it be a sin
And often, to our comfort, shall we find
Rather than envy you.
Laying PARIS in the tomb
Who does he accuse?
him, to be truly touched with love: if he be sad,
The use of your own virtues, for the which
Not Caesar's valour hath o'erthrown Antony,
[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
Think not I love him, though I ask for him:
Go call Thersites hither, sweet Patroclus:
noble gentleman, Edmund?
Dead March. Enter the Funeral of KING HENRY the  Fifth, attended on by Dukes of BEDFORD, Regent of  France, GLOUCESTER, Protector, and EXETER, Earl of WARWICK, the BISHOP OF WINCHESTER, Heralds,  and c
Debts wither 'em to nothing, be men like
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
These English monsters! My Lord of Cambridge here,
Here shall he see No enemy
At land, indeed,
Re-enter a third Citizen
Poor lady, she were better love a dream.
Farewell to me, sir, and welcome to you.
things catch.
Nay, that's certain, we have the exhibition to examine.
Nay, not as one would say, healthy, but so sound as
Than thou hast spoken words?
And turn you all your hatred now on me?
I thank you for that: if my lord get a boy of you,
Is a reserved honesty, and that
Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars,
Why, this is a passing merry one and goes to
This same Cranmer's
The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort,
For with a band of thirty thousand men
Indeed, she's a most fresh and delicate creature.
Draw, seem to defend yourself, now quit you well.
If you affect him, sister, here I swear
The help of one stands me in little stead.
Is growing to me by Antipholus,
Health and all happiness to my lord the king!
And we shall talk before we fight.
It is too late: the life of all his blood
can witness.
Say that I linger'd with you at your shop
What! fear not, man, but yield me up the keys,
Now shine it like a comet of revenge,
What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure
Be blamed for't how you might.
Sent by a consul to me, should not sooner
Although my will distaste what it elected,
between me and Ford's wife?
Seldom or never jumpeth with the heart.
Hear me, my lord,
No, sir,'twas never my desire yet to trouble the
Longer for him to make his rest.
Re-enter second Gentleman
By sick interpreters, once weak ones, is
Thou judgest false already: I mean, thou shalt have
Prithee, good Griffith, tell me how he died:
The carved-bone face on a flask.
That down fell priest and book and book and priest:
Which being but the shadow of your son,
I'll give't him.
Well, I'll find friends to wear my bleeding roses,
snowball, saying his prayers too.
the dove, crowned with an earl's coronet.
Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands:
given me this morning, but I defy all angels, in
A moiety of the world.
For those that were, it is not square to take
In the true course of all the question.
Hero was in this manner accused, in this very manner
I from the north.
Will conquer him! awake, and win the day!
There's enough to make us all.
I thrice presented him a kingly crown,
The valiant never taste of death but once.
That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
This monument five hundred years hath stood,
There's a strong fellow, Menas.
In rank Achilles must or now be cropp'd,
A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good livery
Ere I again behold my Romeo!
Cannot be seen or heard: do but look up.
That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
I think this upstart is old Talbot's ghost,
For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe:
No swearing.
Like labour with the rest, where the other instruments
Upon thine honour, is he prisoner?
Small as an eunuch, or the virgin voice
Exit
I am great with woe, and shall deliver weeping.
Ah, wretched man! would I had died a maid
Enter KING HENRY and EXETER
Enter BAPTISTA
ACT I
I crave no more than what your highness offer'd,
And all the fertile land within that bound,
To-morrow, may it please you, Don Alphonso,
Properly ours.
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
Spare England, for it is your native coast,
'Wind-changing Warwick now can change no more.'
Endeavor'd my advancement to the throne:
Eight wild-boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and
Good night.
Which is both healthful and good husbandry:
But, being seasoned with a gracious voice,
rightly, is, 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.'
The milk thou suck'dst from her did turn to marble,
Observe his inclination in yourself.
Why strew'st thou sugar on that bottled spider,
And I another.
And when the flight is made to one so dear,
And if they fall, they dash themselves to pieces.
Without our grace, our love, our benison.
I will not speak a word!
To FLAVIUS
Or stones whose rates are either rich or poor
Come, grin on me, and I will think thou smilest
Or in the beached margent of the sea,
Upon offenders, hath exceeded law,
We had the tune on't a month ago.
And I his clerk, therefore be well advised
And arms her with the boldness of a wife
True sword to sword, I'll potch at him some way
Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest.
Give it the beasts, to be rid of the men.
I do desire we may be better strangers.
SCENE I. The Abbey at Bury St. Edmund's.
Sit then and talk with her, she is thine own.
Perhaps is but prolong'd: have patience and endure.
Near twenty years ago, in Genoa,
And she's obedient, as you say, obedient,
This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.
For more amazement. If you can behold it,
I would set an ox-head to your lion's hide,
You are not Pinch's patient, are you, sir?
Ye blew the fire that burns ye: now have at ye!
I'll tell my husband, Launcelot, what you say: here he comes.
These herblets shall, which we upon you strew.
all Greece.
Sir,
And then you fled into this abbey here,
[Aside]  I feel remorse in myself with his words,
To be sent after me.
Yes, yes, Sir Thomas,
So do counterfeits.
Our equalness to this. Hear me, good friends--
Ay.
A place below the first: for what miscarries
Enter LUCENTIO, HORTENSIO, and BIANCA
your pocket like a man after the old painting, and
Gave healthful welcome to their shipwreck'd guests,
I remember.
Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels,
Forage in blood of French nobility.
crown for a pitiful bald crown!
Under what title shall I woo for thee,
How low soever the matter, I hope in God for high words.
Why all these fires, why all these gliding ghosts,
Pray you, put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
Things hid and barr'd, you mean, from common sense?
Exit, attended
deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket,
To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome
We will, in France, by God's grace, play a set
One care abroad, he would have all as merry
And ask him what's the reason of these arms.
I pray thee, sing, and let me woo no more.
But did my brother set thee on to this?
Madam, I will, if suddenly I may.
Now can I break my fast, dine, sup and sleep,
Prepare, I say. I thank you, gracious lords,
Here's Agamemnon, an honest fellow enough and one
ACT IV
This ravenous tiger, this accursed devil,
Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia: she
And God forgive them that so much have sway'd
thoughts, wherein I confess me much guilty, to deny
But that thy face is, vizard-like, unchanging,
Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
Attends he here, or no? Lucilius!
Put this in any liquid thing you will,
That smooth'st it so with king and commonweal!
To slay the innocent? What is my offence?
No, sir, no jot, I know your favour well,
My lord, that ne'er before invited eyes,
draw, you whoreson cullionly barber-monger, draw.
With principalities.
'Twixt amorous and villanous. Being thus quench'd
To curse the fair proceedings of this day:
And this is all I have done. She's a fair creature:
Tranio, you jest: but have you both forsworn me?
In honourable terms: nay, he can sing
Was ever known so great and little loss
Speak to Mistress Page.
To show their open banner. Now to you:
surrender of his will but offend us.
As mine, against their will. Should all despair
What is your quarrel? how began it first?
Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
Though enemy, lost aim, and could not?
As tidings of this sight.
I am aweary of this moon: would he would change!
I will deny thee nothing.
On the enchafed flood.
In their sweet bosoms, that never war advance
As he forth walked on his way:--
For testimony whereof, one in the prison,
To one that would do thus. I am half through,
To make this good?
Every man here's so. What would he have borrowed of
The seeming sufferances that you had borne,
Oui. Sauf votre honneur, en verite, vous prononcez
My bosom likes not, nor my brows! Mamillius,
But upon the fairest boughs,
While Philip breathes.
Till we perceived, both how you were wrong led,
Therefore, I say--
The door is open, sir, there lies your way,
You wrong me every way, you wrong me, Brutus,
company, Chitopher, Vaumond, Bentii, two hundred and
And Humphrey is no little man in England.
This it is:
let him take her simply, the wealth I have waits on
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old
Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke.
However these disturbers of our peace
And yet wouldst wrongly win: thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
Was in my nobler thoughts most base, is now
I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my
I have in quick determination
That he was fain to seal on Cupid's name.
business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
Who pass'd, methought, the melancholy flood,
When mine is blanched with fear.
No, you'll reveal it.
The need we have to use you did provoke
Some god o' the island. Sitting on a bank,
Lives in his eye, that close aspect of his
Here! go, the desk, the purse! sweet, now, make haste.
How much, methinks, I could despise this man,
My head should be struck off.
Have I here touch'd Sicilia and from him
But think upon my grief, a lady's grief,
eruptions and sudden breaking out of mirth, as it
you rude rascals?
With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
Who, hearing of your melancholy state,
Fare you well.
When comes Troilus? I'll show you Troilus anon: if
Our wooing doth not end like an old play,
Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
Than I do at this hour joy o'er myself.
Prester John's foot, fetch you a hair off the great
So sovereignly being honourable.
Do not doubt that, before Emilia here
Hark! the land bids me tread no more upon't,
And for my sister and her princely sons,
good a man as yourself, both in the disciplines of
Troilus, by Menelaus.
what I am: I will now take the lecher, he is at my
Hath any honour, but honour for those honours
This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings,
So please you.
The winged vengeance overtake such children.
Well, cousin. I told you a thing yesterday, think on't.
my way shall be paved with English faces.
He never can meet more mischance than come
Farewell, mad wenches, you have simple wits.
O, my heart bleeds
To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
well proved again o' my side! I will not love: if
Doth play the trumpet to his purposes,
See if 'twill teach us to forget our own?
O place and greatness! millions of false eyes
Here, Fluellen, wear thou this favour for me and
Than ever thou lovedst Cassius.
Eleanor, the law, thou see'st, hath judged thee:
Lost he his other eye?
Where no priest shovels in dust. O cursed wretch,
This coronet part betwixt you.
the duke, that my charity be not of him perceived:
welcome. I reckon this always, that a man is never
And, as I am an honest Puck,
In bitterness. The common executioner,
ANTIPHOLUS
Deaf'd with the clamours of their own dear groans,
I must be patient till the heavens look
No, not so, villain, thou beliest thyself:
By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
I cannot say 'tis pity
Yes, certainly, and out of doubt and out of question
At your industrious scenes and acts of death.
Let her not say 'tis I that keep you here:
I would you knew:
here acquired for him shall at home be encountered
But that there is this jewel in the world
SCENE V. Britain. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
'Twere well for Kate and better for myself.
What mightst thou do, that honour would thee do,
Which harm within itself so heinous is
made, if thou desirest to be so, if not, let me see
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  As red as fire! nay, then
'Tis very good, I must be circumstanced.
And trust no agent, for beauty is a witch
beside the Tyrian vessel.
After your thoughts, straight back again to France.
Exeunt
And, in the publication, make no strain,
Fly, father, fly! for all your friends are fled,
They surfeited with honey and began
You have of these pedlars, that have more in them
See, they have shut him in.
Was a deep envious one.
Those articles, my lord, are in the king's hand:
To conquer France, his true inheritance?
Twenty adieus, my frozen Muscovits.
For I have ever verified my friends,
Why, that were covetousness.
While some men leave to do!
Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you?
Enter POLONIUS
Now when the lords and barons of the realm
Let heaven and men and devils, let them all,
a lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's
Call forth your soothsayer: as I slept, methought
Come, my fair Cordelia.
Without debatement further, more or less,
love, very near this. I'll speak to him again.
His fairest daughter is contaminated.
Which for some reasons, sir, I mean to see.
Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
As for these silken-coated slaves, I pass not:
Think, my lord!
That foul defacer of God's handiwork,
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty,
Then that, without the knowledge
melancholy, I did commend the black-oppressing humour
Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet,
For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air?
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
You have heard of such a spirit, and well you know
Go with your impositions, I am yours
It is in us to plant thine honour where
Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord,
To thee the reed is as the oak:
SCENE II. Athens. A room in Timon's house.
And new-create this fault?
the eleven I paid.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches meeting HECATE
Farewell, my lord: I as your lover speak,
There do I give to you and Jessica,
I can interpret all her martyr'd signs,
Save you, good madam.
And by a gem of women, to be abused
Though no man lesser fears the Greeks than I
'Item: She can wash and scour.'
Invite me to a banquet, whose bright faces
Will cheque him for 't: your purposed low correction
To fight against that bloody homicide.
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
Welcome is peace, if he on peace consist,
What my estate is!
notwithstanding, I fear not my ring.
Help, master, help! here's a fish hangs in the net,
Their infants quarter'd with the hands of war,
And dout them with superfluous courage, ha!
Thou wilt o'ertake us, hence a mile or twain,
But what linsey-woolsey hast thou to speak to us again?
ANTIPHOLUS
Your trusty and most valiant servitor,
there. Be the players ready?
To wisdom he's a fool that will not yield,
your pardon,
The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
My lord, I am a man whom fortune hath cruelly
ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to
You stand upon the ravage and behold
That have revolted wives, the tenth of mankind
I must have patience to endure the load:
He doth revive again: madam, be patient.
And thy unkindness be like crooked age,
Hector is slain.
with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
You have no children, butchers! if you had,
confess it brokenly with your English tongue. Do
Who spake of brotherhood? who spake of love?
Lend me thy handkerchief.
And left sweet Pyramus translated there:
And therefore bind them, gentle Publius.
And, knowing whom it was their hap to save,
They rise
Marry, before your ladyship, I grant,
That there should be small love 'mongst these
instrument of honour again into his native quarter,
Now, the gods to-bless your honour!
Poor drunkard!
What paper were you reading?
My idleness doth hatch. How now! Enobarbus!
With dry convulsions, shorten up their sinews
As great'st does least.
But, my good lord, I wot not by what power,--
When we will tempt the frailty of our powers,
SCENE VI. Street near the city gate.
Enter ROMEO
Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
O, thy letter, thy letter! he's a good friend of mine:
You know I say nothing to him, for he understands
Thy thoughts with nobleness, that thou mayst prove
Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms?
Pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body,
Glad that you thus continue your resolve
To you I give myself, for I am yours.
I'll set a bourn how far to be beloved.
I beseech you, what manner of man is he?
Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
It is a man's office, but not yours.
Let's see the boy's face.
Draws, and wounds RODERIGO
That was he
My lord?
That from me was Posthumus ript,
Shall have my Bianca's love.
Your highness bade me ask for it to-day.
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale
Why, she was wash'd and cut and trimm'd, and 'twas
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MECAENAS, and AGRIPPA
But we saw him dead.
Therefore our everlasting farewell take:
In beastly sort, dragg'd through the shameful field.
My lord is not my lord, nor should I know him,
Of her delivery to this valiant Greek
To be a comrade with the wolf and owl,--
I muse your majesty doth seem so cold,
Master Peaseblossom, I shall desire you of more
To prison with her! Shall we thus permit
Christendom.
do more for an almond than he for a commodious drab.
Enter MENENIUS with the two Tribunes of the people, SICINIUS and BRUTUS.
Well, go with me and be not so discomfited:
Out of my sight, and never see me more!
To come thus was I not constrain'd, but did
Nay, follow'd him, till he had melted from
To see this sight, it irks my very soul.
Say, is my kingdom lost? why, 'twas my care
And you, Sir Walter Herbert, stay with me.
And 'twixt the green sea and the azured vault
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
Have caused him, by new act of parliament,
Is not your name, sir, call'd Antipholus?
No more, I say.
I cannot speak him home: he stopp'd the fliers,
And so offend him, for I tell you, sirs,
and will come into 't? I hear say you are of
How will their grudging stomachs be provoked
I talk of you:
I saw our party to their trenches driven,
Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.
From these our Henry lineally descends.
Meet on the market-place. We'll attend you there:
The charges of the action. We have made peace
Only convey me where thou art commanded.
speech of him.
Have I been patron to Antipholus,
And thou, by that small hurt, hast cashier'd Cassio:
sir!' I see things may serve long, but not serve ever.
King HENRY VIII takes his seat, whispers LOVELL, who goes to CARDINAL WOLSEY
She shall not long continue love to him.
Go hence, good night, and here stands all your state:
Misprising what they look on, and her wit
Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death.
confounded one the other, or have fallen both.
How if it come to thee again?
What, what, ye sanguine, shallow-hearted boys!
That did attend themselves and had the virtue
Our services awhile, but my full heart
Omit we all their dole and woe:
Enter three or four Servingmen, with spits, logs, and baskets
Marcus, even thou hast struck upon my crest,
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
We charge you, in the prince's name, stand!
A curse begin at very root on's heart,
We will die all three:
Flourish. Exeunt all but YORK, WARWICK, EXETER and VERNON
my house, thither they send one another: I'll
Whereby my son is disinherited.
Come hither from the furrow and be merry:
To bring false generations: they are co-heirs,
Yet god Achilles still cries 'Excellent!
No better term than this,--thou art a villain.
Out, out! My lords, an please you, 'tis not so,
Presenting HORTENSIO
Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em:
tell us, do you hear whether Antonio have had any
Why, thou whoreson ass, thou mistakest me.
How went he under him?
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
I cannot tell, expect they are busied about a
To each incensed will. I would your highness
Whose procreation, residence, and birth,
The southern wind
Shall pierce a jot. There's gold to pay soldiers:
The heaven such grace did lend her,
Yourself, held precious in the world's esteem,
on't: this shall end without the perdition of souls.
Shake patiently my great affliction off:
rude multitude call the afternoon.
And listen after Humphrey, how he proceeds:
One drop of Christian blood, thy lands and goods
With unchaste purpose and with oath to violate
for the gift: the other is not a thing for sale,
Or sent to Naples. Let me not,
Good day at once.
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
That do conspire my death with devilish plots
Live, Brutus! live, live!
A guard of patience: stay a little while.
My eye's too quick, my heart o'erweens too much,
What thou sayest?
She had the wrong. But what said Henry's queen?
It is noised he hath a mass of treasure.
I'll use thee kindly for thy mistress' sake,
The most replenished sweet work of nature,
Like to the earth swallow her own increase.
They call this bed-work, mappery, closet-war,
For strangers to my nature. I am yet
We will not line his thin bestained cloak
That here I kiss her as my sovereign queen.
now should I kiss my father, well, he weeps on. Now
Her faults will ne'er be known,
A grievous burthen was thy birth to me,
None are so surely caught, when they are catch'd,
Exeunt
Their papers, is more lawful.
And his physicians fear him mightily.
want. Here comes Sir Oliver.
Drinks
Now, for a while farewell, good Duke of York.
The mind that I do! what a sleep were this
Lucentio's father is arrived in Padua,
Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns.
I'll have my kiss, sir. Lady, by your leave.
He, that dares most, but wag his finger at thee:
Their heavy burdens at his narrow gate,
Come, come, thou boy-queller, show thy face,
The people know it, and have now received
come, put it on, keep thee warm. Now, afore me, a
motion of the Prodigal Son, and married a tinker's
And yet I am sure you are not satisfied
That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither,
So, now bring them in, for I'll play the cook,
A gracious king that pardons all offences
To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage!
And the rank poison of the old will die.
So differing in their acts. Yet if I knew
Takes on the point of honour to support
Till she had kindled France and all the world,
An arm as big as thine? a heart as big?
His daughter's woe and heavy well-a-day
Reads
Alarum. Excursions. Enter PRINCE HENRY, LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER, and EARL OF WESTMORELAND
Poor pelting villages, sheep-cotes, and mills,
As I kiss thee. Nay, do not snatch it from me,
They offer to bind Dromio of Ephesus
Enter TROILUS
Much under him, of him I gather'd honour,
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
rate, and that hath taught me to say this:
Avaunt, thou witch! Come, Dromio, let us go.
Shall mark my grave. Commend me to his grace,
And, from some knowledge and assurance, offer
These things seem small and undistinguishable,
What will you do with 't, that you have been
And if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach,
M,--but then there is no consonancy in the sequel,
O, you hope the duke will return no more, or you
Up: so. How is 't? Feel you your legs? You stand.
hear of it hereafter. But shall we have this
As you'll have her.
All feasts, societies, and throngs of men!
do not like the fashion of your garments: you will
Lie graveless, till the flies and gnats of Nile
This is the old man still.
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
For there it is, crack'd in a hundred shivers.
Peaceful and comfortable!
By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.
ACT V
No woman had it, but a civil doctor,
And ye shall find me thankful. Lead the way, lords:
Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away. My
And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
Will you make haste?
Enter Sir William LUCY, attended, Herald of the French preceding
cuckold Ford.
Sweet lord, and why?
Well, I shall be wiser.
learned, like Sir Proteus, to wreathe your arms,
It shall be done.
Will piece up in himself.
And lasting in her sad remembrance.
Even in the fan and wind of your fair sword,
have you whipt: so, for this time, Pompey, fare you well.
Silence bestows that virtue on it, madam.
hath got, as I take it, an ague. Where the devil
To be so pester'd with a popinjay,
Flourish. Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR and his train
'Twixt this and supper: go not my horse the better,
My lord, your nobles, jealous of your absence,
This proffer'd benefit of dignity,
Dispersed are the glories it included.
Why doth your highness look so pale and wan?
As the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled.
And took his voice who should be prick'd to die,
There's mischief in this man: canst thou say further?
Exeunt
his service, you may tell every finger I have with
You weigh me not? O, that's you care not for me.
Make we our march towards Birnam.
Pardon is all the suit I have in hand.
'This is no flattery: these are counsellors
And by the doom of death end woes and all.
his virtue, which he hath not, he might at some
yours, and welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine.
to the determination of justice: yet had he framed
Go to, farewell. Do you hear, Roderigo?
suppers and sleeping-hours excepted: it is the
That ebb and flow by the moon.
Come, fool, come, try me in thy paper.
I ask, that I might waken reverence,
Or that the negligence may well be laugh'd at,
To feast with me and see me at my tent.
I robb'd his wound of it, behold it stain'd
gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any petty
She gave me none, except an angry word.
Entreat thee back to Athens, who have thought
And turn him to no pain, but if he start,
You maim'd the jurisdiction of all bishops.
And with their helps only defend ourselves,
Ay, sir, we did sleep day out of countenance, and
First Serving-man	Content: I'll to the surgeon's.
If not Achilles, sir,
But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on
The man's undone forever, for if Hector break not his
CASSIO: Good night, honest Iago.
I am his brother, and I love him well.
You make more rich to owe?
And kingly dignity, we are contented
To the great lord.
killed and eaten in these wars? But how many hath
Son, on my life,
In the most terrible and nimble stroke
The vapour of our valour will o'erturn them.
Where is Lucentio?
of a good conscience.
And was beheaded. Thus the Mortimers,
And these our ships, you happily may think
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
Spoke to your deservings like a chronicle,
He overtaketh in his pilgrimage,
Choose Caesar for their king.
This ensign here of mine was turning back,
My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,
I thought you would not back again.
As well as I do know your outward favour.
Having often of your open bounty tasted,
My prisoners in your majesty's behalf.
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
But shall I live in hope?
Which seems a little fouler than it is,
And patches will I get unto these cudgell'd scars,
Out on thee, rude man! thou dost shame thy mother
Enter CHATILLON
Nay Warwick, single out some other chase,
some occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking
The merciful construction of good women,
Our army's in the field
Clear them o' the city. For myself, I'll put
Exit Secretary
'Tis hot, it smokes,
To be so rid o' the business.
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.
O day untowardly turned!
With burthens of the dead,--some that were hang'd,
No, I say.
They were not born for bondage.
If they have done this thing, my gracious lord--
Most bitterly on you, as putter on
For, in my conscience, I was the first man
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
of shame and iniquity. O, you have heard something
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels,
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
If you will marry, make your loves to me,
your grace: for trouble being gone, comfort should
Beaufort's red sparkling eyes blab his heart's malice,
one, they'll find linen enough on every hedge.
She now shall be my sister, not my wife.
Rebuke me not for that which you provoke:
Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse,
And by and by a cloud takes all away!
Crying 'Villiago!' unto all they meet.
What talk you of debating? in few words,
wrongs you.
hose in France, his bonnet in Germany and his
Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
Your house, but for this virgin that doth prop it,
I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life:
To win this easy match play'd for a crown?
My conscience tells me you are innocent.
A thousand, sir,
There speak, and strike, brave boys, and take
Will blow these sands, like Sibyl's leaves, abroad,
And we create, in absence of ourself,
For I did play a lamentable part:
It is a fery discretion answer, save the fall is in
Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure,
I will hear Brutus speak.
And twenty of these puny lies I'll tell,
Here's to thee, Menas!
But do not use it oft, let me entreat you.
Hark, hark!
Worthy Macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
could recover the shore, five and thirty leagues off
I'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell,
I know thee well enough, thy name is Gloucester:
The like from him.
Prick not your finger as you pluck it off,
Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out,
By giving the house of Lancaster leave to breathe,
And underwrite in an observing kind
Is't possible that my deserts to you
Officers, what offence have these men done?
being well-advised.
Andromache, I am offended with you:
One of my sex, no woman's face remember,
Well, be gone: I will not miss her.
For these, these, tribunes, in the dust I write
This priest has no pride in him?
That's true, make no question of that. 'Two and
Alas, that Warwick had no more forecast,
though I did.
wrote to Pompey, upon his own appeal, seizes him: so
In breaking faith with Julia whom I loved:
Were I as patient as the midnight sleep,
I think
And further, I have learn'd,
The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger,
Enter FALSTAFF
Enter MARK ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, and others attending
John. Unless you go out disguised--
I have from your Sicilian shores dismiss'd,
He is a kinsman to the Montague,
We did keep time, sir, in our catches. Sneck up!
O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous,
Where I did meet thee once with Helena,
Knowing my mind, you wrong me, Master Fenton.
As it was won with blood, lost be it so!
Dove-drawn with her. Here thought they to have done
Ay, Greek, and that shall be divulged well
Tut, I came not to hear this.
Nay, do not think I flatter,
A pattern, precedent, and lively warrant,
I'll after him, and see the event of this.
To ease his breast with panting.
Thou hast undone thyself, thy son and me,
My lady, to the manner of the days,
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.
What are you, sir?
If you love her, you cannot see her.
The dignity of your office, is the point
Shall I descend? and will you give me leave?
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,
Come hither, sir.
lungs are tickled o' the sere, and the lady shall
I would he had.
Whilst such a worthy leader, wanting aid,
Draws on apace, four happy days bring in
hard as steel.
Trim sport for them that had the doing of it.
And ever shall
Out of their saddles into the dirt, and thereby
Arm, wenches, arm! encounters mounted are
If he say so, may his pernicious soul
This I wonder at,
You have desire to purchase, and your store,
All sects, all ages smack of this vice, and he
And shall have your will, because our king:
Again to sleep.
Leaving thy trunk for crows to feed upon.
Love, lend me patience to forbear awhile.
No, in truth, sir, he should not. 'Deceiving me'
He is not lolling on a lewd day-bed,
have decreed not to sing in my cage. If I had my
Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and others
Lest it discomfort us. Lucilius, come,
Come like shadows, so depart!
Yet say I, he is in love.
For matching more for wanton lust than honour,
I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me,
And, Benedick, love on, I will requite thee,
ANTIPHOLUS
But these are all lies: men have died from time to
I smell sweet savours and I feel soft things:
Enter the two Murderers
And boding screech-owls make the concert full!
Fools had ne'er less wit in a year,
Exit AEdile
Yea, even I alone.
No, not to lose it all, as thou hast done:
I'll be his surety.
A city on the inconstant billows dancing,
That they had gather'd a wise council to them
Clock strikes
Who knows the lord protector's mind herein?
Lady, were you her bedfellow last night?
Will change to virtue and to worthiness.
Here's a young maid with travel much oppress'd
Thy wife and children's blood. For myself, son,
Be near me, that I may remember you.
The honour and regard of such a father.
Is there no voice more worthy than my own
That love my friend, and that they know full well
Was the first man that leap'd, cried, 'Hell is empty
has no more pity in him than a dog: a Jew would have
Is leaden servitor to dull delay,
friendship
If this man come to good.
It is to be recovered: but that the merit of
I would these dewy tears were from the ground.
The folded meaning of your words' deceit.
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
My lord, whoever journeys to the Prince,
That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
Full of unpleasing blots and sightless stains,
My master knows not but I am gone hence,
Lend favourable ears to our request,
right, because he hath not the gift to woo in other
Give me pen and ink. Sirrah, can you with a grace
Exit
Do to this body what extremes you can,
With Pindarus his bondman, on this hill.
That could have better sew'd than Philomel.
Our separation so abides, and flies,
I know not what to do: I would to God,
To our confusion.
It must be himself, then.
Spotted, detested, and abominable.
These words are razors to my wounded heart.
it, nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace what
He's sudden, if a thing comes in his head.
Only my wars with him: he is a lion
Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best
but that they call compliment is like the encounter
affectionately to you,--
If e'er again I meet him beard to beard,
Come, if the emperor's court can feast two brides,
Was never subject long'd to be a king
Some that will thank you, making just report
And I'll be sworn you would believe my saying,
My lord, what I have done, as best I may,
butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of
Others would say 'Where, which is Bolingbroke?'
your remedy.
Riding, her fortunes brought the maid aboard us,
What, doth my Lord of Suffolk comfort me?
A goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent, of a
Commend me to him: I will send his ransom,
murderer. He does obey every point of the letter
Raze out the written troubles of the brain
Be muster'd, bid the captains look to't. Now, sir,
Enter a Servant
Even at the base of Pompey's statua,
Let me not understand you, then, speak it in Welsh.
Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new matter.
Would have reverted to my bow again,
You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point
Come on, away: apart upon our knees.
purpose as then each bore, upon importance of so
Yea, look'st thou pale? let me see the writing.
Let pity not be believed!' There she shook
Upon this naughty earth? Go to, go to,
That you are worthless.
Being a murderer, though he were my brother.
And in the pulpit, as becomes a friend,
I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for
Exit Launcelot
For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,
Till which encounter,
Can I demand.
But thus condition'd: thou shalt build from men,
dissembled in such a gown. I am not tall enough to
That longing have been sick for, ere I'ld yield
If only to go warm were gorgeous,
No I'll be sworn, unless you call three fingers on
Rebellion lay in his way, and he found it.
Must not so stale his palm, nobly acquired,
Masterly done:
With five and twenty, Regan? said you so?
Even so myself bewails good Gloucester's case
Now be a freeman: and with this good sword,
Have slime upon them, such as the aspic leaves
little blood they do, I'll be a curer of madmen.
And, for I know your reverend ages love
They're come from field: let us to Priam's hall,
That old and antique song we heard last night:
SCENE II. The same. The DUKE's palace.
When must he die?
As you shall prove us, praise us.
Would so offend a virgin, and extort
We follow'd then our lord, our lawful king:
There's something in't,
Make no collection of it: let him show
Exeunt
says, you are no good member of the commonwealth,
That they take place, when virtue's steely bones
Wishing me with him, partner of his fortune.
Good lords, although my will to give is living,
To set him free from his captivity.
But had he such a chain of thee or no?
The scope of justice, till now myself and such
As are the swelling Adriatic seas:
For ever from the world. I had my trial,
what o' that?
Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die.
Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry.
Doth your honour see any harm in his face?
If this but answer to my just belief,
Obedience: for so work the honey-bees,
Were 't not for laughing, I should pity him.
Why, how now, daughter Katharina! in your dumps?
Of my kind uncle, that I know will give,
Who, as I hear, mean to solicit him
So, oft it chances in particular men,
I must to England, you know that?
The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
The power of Caesar, and
How now, ambitious Humphry! what means this?
Call thither all the officers o' the town,
According to the fair play of the world,
You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first: 'tis a
'Tis but so, I warrant.
All that is virtuous, save what thou dislikest,
Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke's daughter, be
Too subtle-potent, tuned too sharp in sweetness,
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and
Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here!
time shall serve, there shall be smiles, but that
We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio,
An enemy to my son. How now, Pisanio!
I mean, who set the body and the limbs
part to intermingle with them. But for which of my
Bear her this jewel, pledge of my affection.
Will one day end it.
Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides,
'Tis sure enough, an you knew how.
you do it bravely.
Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
Peace, Kent!
To speak and strike? O Rome, I make thee promise:
Ay, that I will, come cut and long-tail, under the
Hark, do you hear the sea?
term and term and then they perceive not how Time moves.
Unto another lady of esteem:
My lord?
I were best not to call, I dare not call:
o'er his part, for the short and the long is, our
Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
rheum: therefore is it most expedient for the
That no man enter till my tale be done.
There were none fine but Adam, Ralph, and Gregory,
Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth,
you give me touch my palate adversely, I make a
Still, I swear I love you.
To what, I pray?
Yes, sir, I shall.
Dined at home! Thou villain, what sayest thou?
beggar's. The catastrophe is a nuptial: on whose
tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt be
You might have rhymed.
For what reason?
What, by a horseman, or a footman?
Dying with mother's dug between its lips:
And Cassandra laughed.
And send it to the king: he for the same
before you came, for look here what I found on a
May read strange matters. To beguile the time,
Enter Citizens
And I have found Demetrius like a jewel,
Only fair speech.
Because they are not eight?
Your vessels and your spells provide,
Jacks, and if I cannot, I'll find those that shall.
Enter TIMON
your bowl.
Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lovest,
And we will answer all things faithfully.
SCENE II. The same. A public way or platform leading to the
sent your worship a morning's draught of sack.
My most dear Gloucester!
And have not those soft parts of conversation
To trust the opportunity of night
To keep mine honour from corruption,
You take a precipice for no leap of danger,
When she was dear to us, we did hold her so,
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players,
Call it not patience, Gaunt, it is despair:
Do thou for him stand:
And all is semblative a woman's part.
Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
And be in Padua here Vincentio's son,
No, sir, Helen: could you not find out that by her
This tongue had not offended so to-day,
If they were known, as the suspect is great,
And five years since there was some speech of marriage
Provoked by him, you cannot--the great danger
That calls our person from our morning's rest?
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
Nor yoke with him for tribune.
my eyes on thy picture. and my heart on thy every
Exeunt
Bade him anon return and here speak with me,
By how much unexpected, by so much
I should judge now unhappily.
I do bequeath my faithful services
And God defend but still I should stand so,
Why, he stalks up and down like a peacock,--a stride
Nay, I'll ne'er believe a madman till I see his
youth, strength, skill and wrath can furnish man withal.
That the graves all gaping wide,
Stole from my bed: and yesternight, at supper,
Exeunt
You have, my lord: would it might please your grace,
And unregarded age in corners thrown:
And from her derogate body never spring
for, indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish
Prove as successful to the queen,--O be't so!--
Out, ye rogue! shall I be your ostler?
Have been Tom's food for seven long year.
I'll nothing do on charge: to her own worth
so money comes withal.
month's length a-piece, by an abstract of success:
Come on't what will.
I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother
I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus,
Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
I prithee, gentle friend,
And monarchs to behold the swelling scene!
First 'Prentice	Here, Peter, I drink to thee: and be not afraid.
thieves of the day's beauty: let us be Diana's
and, as it were, spoke the prologue of our comedy,
Of that dark hour. Resolve yourselves apart:
Which lay nice manners by, I put you to
And to be baited with the rabble's curse.
Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.
As for the brat of this accursed duke,
What forgeries you please, marry, none so rank
Legitimation, name and all is gone:
I could do this, and that with no rash potion,
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd,
I have, my lord: and their intent is this:
Faith, I know not what to say.
thing more than contempt, you would not give means
Upon the place beneath: it is twice blest,
Which their own conscience seal'd them--laying by
Would scatter all her spices on the stream,
All this is true.
Have lipp'd, and trembled kissing.
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning,
Things at the worst will cease, or else climb upward
Hath Thetis' birth-child on the heavens bestow'd:
Romeo, come forth, come forth, thou fearful man:
know not what pride is.
of. He left behind him myself and a sister, both
house between ten and eleven.
And be a day before our husbands home:
Being now awake, I'll queen it no inch farther,
His smiles,
Such pity as my rapier's point affords.
Here's no man.
go to the ale with a Christian. Wilt thou go?
I'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within.
What men provided, what munition sent,
Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light
That made great Jove to humble him to her hand.
You wish'd us parties, we'll deliver you
He is frank'd up to fatting for his pains
These eyes, like lamps whose wasting oil is spent,
than you'ld think, sister.
Please you, draw near. Louder the music there!
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments
Therefore let every man now task his thought,
good moon-calf.
Bid him repair to us to Ely House
Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
Enter other Servants
truly I think if all our wits were to issue out of
About a certain question in the law
If not Achilles? Though't be a sportful combat,
When have I aught exacted at your hands,
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, and DOUGLAS
Now much beshrew my manners and my pride,
Discard, bully Hercules, cashier: let them wag, trot, trot.
What ring gave you my lord?
Where is your son?
Give me the letter, sir.
To dim his glory and to stain the track
[Aside]  Simonides!
whipped three market-days together.
Let him approach: call in my gentlewoman.
First Murderer appears at the door
sun looking with a southward eye upon him, where he
As our best-moving fair solicitor.
any thing which professed to make him rejoice: a
A fearful army, led by Caius Marcius
Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.
cause, and merry against the hair: he hath the
May carry through itself to that full issue
As true as I believe you think them false
Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
And brings from him such offers of our peace
A city full, of tribunes, such as you,
SCENE III. A room in PETRUCHIO'S house.
He is a very serpent in my way,
Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
I' fecks!
according to the scrip.
wit stirring and leave the faction of fools.
Absolved him with an axe.
But now he's gone, and my idolatrous fancy
Fool, fool, fool, I say!
A most delicious banquet by his bed,
To do some fatal execution?
thee, look thee, a bearing-cloth for a squire's
As I would wish mine enemy.
Nay, pray you, seek no colour for your going,
So I might have your company in hell,
Trumpet within
their wits with their wives: and then give them
But must not break my back to heal his finger,
With what else needful your good grace shall think
To mark me for his friend, yet, I protest,
Gloucester,
Nor I, by Pluto: but that that likes not you pleases me best.
How hard it is for women to keep counsel!
Lest I, by marking of your rage, forget
That 'once' I see by your good father's speed
Is with a mighty power landed at Milford,
Proceed in practise with my younger daughter,
But you at your sick service had a prince.
And heavy-gaited toads lie in their way,
That had, give't these fellows
How is that?
sword on thy side, and yet thou rannest away: what
And blazoning our injustice every where?
And every tale condemns me for a villain.
discommend so much. I know, sir, I am no
Come, how wouldst thou praise me?
But that he was bound by a solemn oath?
By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks,
We are honour'd much by good Simonides.
To try my fortune. By this scimitar
That things ill-got had ever bad success?
Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd,
Is posted, as the agent of our cardinal,
Upon his bad life to make all this good,
That in crossways and floods have burial,
Always a villain's office or a fool's.
Deliver'd weeping.
The love of him, and this respect besides,
That you would love yourself, and in that love
The noble Antony.
And little bless'd with the soft phrase of peace:
you sent hither to praise me?
We have cause to be glad that matters are so well
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well,
The happiest gift that ever marquess gave,
No, he's in Tartar limbo, worse than hell.
Not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel.
And live the purer with the other half.
For that I am some twelve or fourteen moon-shines
That ministers thine own death if I die.
For I was born at sea.
At many leisures I proposed.
But yet thou shalt have freedom: so, so, so.
What, a hodge-pudding? a bag of flax?
Usurp'd from you and your progenitors.
I think the Duke of Burgundy will fast
honourable gentleman: tricks he hath had in him,
been as proper?
Tyre, I now look from thee then, and to Tarsus
But my kisses bring again, bring again,
We are less afraid to be drowned than thou art.
And, hark! they shout for joy.
So it be new, there's no respect how vile--
O slanderous world! Kate like the hazel-twig
charge-house on the top of the mountain?
As you have ever been my father's honour'd friend,
Seizes and disarms her
We will have, if this fadge not, an antique. I
desire the duke to use his good pleasure, and put
And surely as I live, I am a maid.
My emperor hath wrote, I must from hence,
O, never will I trust to speeches penn'd,
As mercy does.
Why, that's my bawcock. What, hast
A deed might gain her love or your displeasure.
This avarice
deserved praise on my palfrey: it is a theme as
Softly and swiftly, sir, for the priest is ready.
Against our rampired gates, and they shall ope,
My talk to thee must be how Benedick
but I am not to say it is a sea, for it is now the
Enter CLEON, the governor of Tarsus, with DIONYZA, and others
Forgive me, country, and sweet countrymen,
Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms
By heaven, you did, and to confirm it plain,
That I was shipp'd at sea, I well remember,
Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head: if you
The soil, the profit and this kind of life,
I pray, let them be admitted.
Pawn their experience to their present pleasure,
What is the matter? How now, general!
To show his teeth as white as whale's bone,
No, not a creature enters in my house.
In seeking to augment it, but still keep
He hath but as offended in a dream!
Yield, cur!
For what they have been: 'tis a cruelty
Your belly's answer? What!
at their society, as their friendship, may
I do not know the man I should avoid
I'll prove a tyrant to him. As for you,
Well, be't so, prithee.
from your encounter, then they light on us.
A man in much esteem with the king, and truly
Vouchsafe, divine perfection of a woman,
Stay till I have read the letter.
No more but so?
Incite them to quick motion, for I must
Be merciful, great duke, to men of mould.
against six French swords, their assigns, and three
The ne'er touch'd vestal: try thy cunning, Thyreus,
Startles and frights consideration,
The price is to ask it kindly.
Flourish. Alarums
At Priam's royal table do I sit,
In penalty alike, and 'tis not hard, I think,
out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen and hang me
I would not be so sick though for his place:
Nor did he soil the fact with cowardice--
This is the fairy land: O spite of spites!
cares of it, and the forms of it, and the sobriety
To stand upon my kingdom once again.
Dissolves to water and doth lose his form.
Enter CASSIO and some Musicians
Good even, Audrey.
And on my head did set the diadem.
Exeunt
Attended with the pleasures of the world,
Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
Though doubts did ever sleep.
Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin,
And talk'd apace, and in that hour, my lord,
How easy dost thou take all England up!
Ever true in loving be,
Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,
And try your penitence, if it be sound,
was done to Elbow's wife, that he hath cause to
Nor, as we are, we say we will not shun it:
Something unfilial: reason my son
Exit LONGAVILLE
Whilst I remember
Should lose their names, and so should justice too.
About him, fairies, sing a scornful rhyme,
I'll give you boot, I'll give you three for one.
Have been consider'd and debated on.
Had come along with me, but that his mistress
Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus:
His word was still,--Fie, foh, and fum,
Whom thou lovest best: see thou dissemble not.
And here choose I, joy be the consequence!
With such austerity as 'longeth to a father.
But hear you.
Coming and going with thy honey breath.
I thank you, sir.
I pray you, do not fall in love with me,
Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat
Honour and fortunes, keep with you, Lord Timon!
That trick of state
Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword,
Keep tune there still, so you will sing it out:
I know your back will bear a duchess: say,
Shalt carry from me to the empress' sons
Which easily endures not article
Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
And with him there lie mudded.
should marry twenty husbands. If he would despise me
poor gentlewoman: there she lost a noble and
As many lines close in the dial's centre,
Behind the tuft of pines I met them, never
they should have any allegiance in them, being
To see thy noble uncle thus distract?
Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through:
Speak on with favour, we are bent to hear.
But our new heraldry is hands, not hearts.
In no less working than are swords and bows
I am not in a sportive humour now:
In the affliction of these terrible dreams
What proclamation, man?
This, by the way, I let you understand,
And Jove, for your love, would infringe an oath.
For I am sure, when he shall see our army,
Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,
That is, a woman, if you be more, you're none,
I hope she will deserve well,--and a little
answer before him. If it be honest you have spoke,
Writes
O, I am known
And not where I had aim'd them.
To feast and sport us at thy father's house.
Upon my party! Thou cold-blooded slave,
them meet, that that same young Trojan ass, that
And even as I was then is Percy now.
By heaven, I'll know thy thoughts.
Let music sound while he doth make his choice,
When the alarum were struck than idly sit
To do upon respect such violent outrage:
The marble pavement closes, he is enter'd
That I think honourable: therefore mark my counsel,
Feed arrogance and are the proud man's fees.
We will discharge our duty.
Mistress, what cheer?
My child is yet a stranger in the world,
O, why rebuke you him that loves you so?
being governed, as the sea is, by our noble and
Do not live, Hero, do not ope thine eyes:
I pray you and beseech you that you will.
The love that lean'd on them as slippery too,
One is too poor, too weak for my revenge.
But 'twas thy beauty that provoked me.
Than this is all as true as it is strange:
He used us scornfully: he should have show'd us
And interchanging blows I quickly shed
To the death, my lord.
He is your brother, lords, sensibly fed
Their very noses had been counsellors
That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise?
Cup us, till the world go round,
The mariners all under hatches stow'd,
'Od's lifelings, here he is! You broke my head for
Fright me with urchin--shows, pitch me i' the mire,
doth most mistake in her gifts to women.
Return you to my sister.
Exit
Courage! there will be pity taken on you: you that
Are smother'd up, leads fill'd, and ridges horsed
Had she such power,
No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip:
Without delay, and the pretence for this
Now therefore would I have thee to my tutor--
Nym, thou hast spoke the right,
But, for all this, thou shalt have as many dolours
Pardon and terms of love to all of you?
And swim to yonder point?' Upon the word,
Whiles we, God's wrathful agent, do correct
Enter a second Messenger
It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.
SCENE VI. Windsor castle.
Constringed in mass by the almighty sun,
heavens, he shows me where the bachelors sit, and
bent against Caesar. If thou beest not immortal,
Some thousands of these logs and pile them up,
By reason of his absence, there is nothing
And these same thoughts people this little world,
A plague of all cowards, I say, and a vengeance too!
business, I am therefore no courtier? I am courtier
the sensible Benedick's head?
If love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to love?
I talk but idly, and you laugh at me.
And when fair Cressid comes into my thoughts,--
More in their officer than person: Sossius,
Yet in some measure satisfy her so
Excellent falsehood!
With duty and desire we follow you.
That after seven years' siege yet Troy walls stand,
Gives a letter
So, now, methinks, I feel a little ease.
Descry a sail.
Of any prince so wild a libertine.
This feather stirs, she lives! if it be so,
Exeunt
Dead, then?
Your wife would give you little thanks for that,
had losses, and one that hath two gowns and every
When time is old and hath forgot itself,
For losing ken of Albion's wished coast.
but that I am afeard.
All the infections that the sun sucks up
Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thou
Re-enter QUINCE
Well, we will have such a prologue, and it shall be
Pursue him to his house, and pluck him thence:
Be patient till the last.
Dream on, dream on, of bloody deeds and death:
In name of lendings for your highness' soldiers,
What mercy can you render him, Antonio?
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
A word with you.
List to your tribunes. Audience: peace, I say!
on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee!
My Lord Pandarus, honey-sweet lord,--
Turn back and fly, like ships before the wind
Repair to the senate-house.
That thought to fill his grave in quiet, yea,
And you are darken'd in this action, sir,
This they have promised, to show your highness
Yield, Marcius, yield!
Pawn'd with the other, for the poor rude world
Will I upon thy party wear this rose:
Go fetch it, sister.
Must gently be preserved, cherish'd, and kept:
For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
That to our sister you do make return,
Enter ISABELLA and LUCIO
Doth win immortal fame.
Why, then, the champions are prepared, and stay
Let hell want pains enough to torture me.
He'll tickle it for his concupy.
SCENE VII. The gates of Corioli.
power that we have no power to do, for if he show us
evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this marriage?
And as with age his body uglier grows,
Exeunt BIANCA and Servant
The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb,
And has done half an hour, to know your pleasures.
Go hang yourself, you naughty mocking uncle!
By Jove,
Ay, ay, farewell, thy office is discharged.
We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again,
Amen!
To keep his bed of blackness unlaid ope,
My residence in Rome at one Philario's,
Near to her close and consecrated bower,
South-west.
Re-enter BERTRAM, guarded
Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
To the young man send humble treaties, dodge
Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, horsed
No, no, we will hold it as a dream till it appear
you? You will lose your reputation.
supper that night.
Ay, a thousand times.
Your pardon, noble mistress!
Why?
This gentle offer of the perilous time.
Jupiter descends in thunder and lightning, sitting  upon an eagle: he throws a thunderbolt. The Apparitions fall on their knees
honourable friend.
Like one well studied in a sad ostent
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Murderous to the senses? That confirms it home:
SCENE II. Mytilene. A room in a brothel.
If drink rock not his cradle.
If he were known alive?
The will of heaven be done, and the king's pleasure
Know, Rome, that all alone Marcius did fight
especially to know himself.
I have sent after him: he says he'll come,
O, thou, whose wounds become hard-favour'd death,
Exit LYSANDER, as following the voice
Meantime, have patience.
Into this gaping hollow of the earth?
The very life seems warm upon her lip.
This fellow is wise enough to play the fool,
a quarrel, but nothing wherefore. O God, that men
It would allay the burning quality
What is your name?
Our ranks are broke, and ruin follows us:
And other books, good ones, I warrant ye.
The miserable have no other medicine
Yourself and your accusers, and to have heard you,
Her father means she shall be all in white,
Which therein works a miracle in nature,
I do not, till you practise them on me.
How happily he lives, how well beloved
Fear not that, I warrant thee. Come, let's march
Proclaim a pardon to the soldiers fled
So many years ere I shall shear the fleece:
For I am that way going to temptation,
SCENE II. The sea-coast.
Now, sister, what's the comfort?
And thus I took the vantage of those few,
It is the cry of women, my good lord.
And bring you where both fire and food is ready.
And, Prince of Wales, so dare we venture thee,
Except mine own name: that some whirlwind bear
O heart, lose not thy nature, let not ever
Signior Benedick, no, for then were you a child.
Nobler than my revolt is infamous,
For this I owe you: here comes other reckonings.
Of thirty sail: and now they do restem
Do it without invention, suddenly,
But will you be more justified? You ever
Re-enter BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
Which buys admittance, oft it doth, yea, and makes
a muffler and a kerchief, and so escape.
Good Master Ford, be contented: you wrong yourself too much.
Makes thee the happier: heavens, deal so still!
Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
thee, else thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and
No, thou stand'st single, thou'rt not on him yet.
Your fathers taken by the silver beards,
I turn the trouble of my countenance
home! it rejoiceth my intellect: true wit!
This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
Do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty
Where no man never comes but that sad dog
'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
Did you say all? O hell-kite! All?
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
Of that which hath so faithfully been paid.
And on the cause and question now in hand
Therefore, come back.
child. We have seen the best of our time:
That is the cause we trouble you so early,
Whereof you cannot easily purge yourself.
Wilt thou not answer, man?
Tongue, not a word:
Come hither, good Volumnius, list a word.
And that's the reason I love him so little.
Where you shall hold your session. At this time
Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you: but I
Is much upon my fashion.
Here in the prison. Do me the common right
Thou seest, the heavens, as troubled with man's act,
I am supposed dead: the army breaking,
Shave the head, and tie the beard, and say it was
But curse the cause I cannot aid the man.
And say I spoke with you.
It will be light, my lord, that you may bear it
with two stones moe than's artificial one: he is
But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man,
teeth and sing. I know a man that had this trick of
hath had three suits to his back, six shirts to his
Fetch forth the stocks! As I have life and honour,
Judas I am, ycliped Maccabaeus.
'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
Sung thee asleep, his loving breast thy pillow:
Yon king's to me like to my father's picture,
Master, you look'd so longly on the maid,
Here shall they make their ransom on the sand,
Never sound more! when drums and trumpets shall
The name thou owest not, and hast put thyself
Else would I have a fling at Winchester.
When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams.'
Your children shall be kings.
How now, sweetheart! who's at home besides yourself?
The king is kind, and well we know the king
Commanded me to follow, and attend
I was provoked by her slanderous tongue,
I'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded
It should seem, then, that Dobbin's tail grows
Sir Robert could do well: marry, to confess,
Here comes a man, let's stay till he be past.
Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?
I am bound to you:
here lies the point:  if I drown myself wittingly,
And I loved her that she did pity them.
Had I a glass, I would.
Thanks, gentle sir.
Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison:
So, slave, hence!
I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver
Are of a mind, he, that they cannot help him,
You may, by marrying.
The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up
Well, my good lady.
Three lads of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits,
That bloody mind, I think, they learn'd of me,
I'll pay it presently with all my heart.
of all cess.
about him to-day, I can tell them that: and there's
Made known herself my daughter.
Wherefore?
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
Good sir, have patience.
That could do no vengeance to me.
Hath brought me up to be your daughter's dower,
The treason and you go in peace away together.
Make the prize light.
choice. Now, sir, this granted,--as it is a most
This is the day wherein I wish'd to fall
She hath been fairer, madam, than she is:
He thanks your grace, names himself Pericles,
Attend your office and your quality.
Ay, my lord.
which time of the contract and limit of the
I will be patient, outwardly I will.
The queen is obstinate,
Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume.
Write down, master gentleman Conrade. Masters, do
I had a father, Mistress Anne, my uncle can tell you
Upon the valleys, whose low vassal seat
This diamond was my mother's: take it, heart,
For two, and sound ones too.
With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur:
Make yourselves scabs?
He was much famed.
To mild entreaties, God in heaven forbid
beneficial news, it is the celebration of his
I know not what: 'tis the heart, Master Page, 'tis
What! this gentleman will out-talk us all.
By this one bloody trial of sharp war.
If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
My liege, in Kent the Guildfords are in arms,
That eye that told you so look'd but a-squint.
merry host hath had the measuring of their weapons,
And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
A generation of still-breeding thoughts,
If wisdom be in suffering. O my lords,
As, by my faith, I see no more in you
your sake, Kate, why you undid me: for the one, I
Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you
Come, I will make you way for these your letters,
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Come, hang them on this line.
Ho, ho! I laugh to think that babe a bastard.
The heart of woman is! O Brutus,
What, all my pretty chickens and their dam
'Tis to be doubted, madam.
Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
Wilt thou destroy him then?
For he is just and always loved us well.
These sorrowful drops upon thy blood-stain'd face,
That, by confessing them, the souls of men
For then, 'tis like I should forget myself:
And if I be, sir, is it any offence?
Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
We speak in vain.
God give you joy, sir, of your gallant bride!
Ay, and it doth confirm
Come, will this wood take fire?
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Enter MONTANO and two Gentlemen
Such poor, such bare, such lewd, such mean attempts,
For, by oppressing and betraying me,
well, Lucifer, well, Barbason, well, yet they are
Both thanks and use. But I do bend my speech
I do not know if it be it or no.
Cold biting winter mars our hoped-for hay.
My love can give no place, bide no denay.
I may entitle thee my loving father:
But our great Ajax bravely beat down him.'
I will drain him dry as hay:
Forth of my heart those charms, thine eyes, are blotted,
Rescue, my Lord of Norfolk, rescue, rescue!
Exeunt QUINCE, SNUG, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
[To MARINA]  First, I would have you note, this is
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
We make him lord of. Call the Lady Constance,
With libbard's head on knee.
I will follow you.
the blessed sun of heaven prove a micher and eat
Hang thee, monster!
Will it serve for any model to build mischief on?
Well, bury him, and bury me the next.
You cannot revel into dukedoms there.
That face of hers again. Therefore be gone
favourably minister.
slight and trivial a nature.
Let it not gall your patience, good Iago,
What means this, my lord?
silver, set with pearls, down sleeves, side sleeves,
Say to the king the knowledge of the broil
Albeit he comes on angry purpose now,
Reigns in the hearts of all our present parts.
No, indeed, will I not, Pompey, it is not the wear.
gravity to play at cherry-pit with Satan: hang
And nothing grieves me heartily indeed
am loved of all ladies, only you excepted: and I
By that you love the dearest in this world,
And so will I and write home for it straight.
Those pelican daughters.
That feelingly persuade me what I am.'
undermine it, the walls will stand till they fall of
Enter, to Chamberlain, NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
keep close, we'll read it at more advantage: there
Thy tongue against thy tongue. O, let thy vow
I' the shipman's card.
I hate ingratitude more in a man
to wars with the women!
What means this jest? I pray you, master, tell me.
beguile the supposition of that lascivious young boy
Prove it before these varlets here, thou honourable
Of comely virtues:
Trust to thy single virtue, for thy soldiers,
Be bloody, bold, and resolute, laugh to scorn
Ay, some mad message from his mad grandfather.
Which, if convenience will not allow,
The first and happiest hearers of the town,
What, will you not suffer me? Nay, now I see
And sat at good men's feasts and wiped our eyes
I have a venturous fairy that shall seek
Apollo, Pallas, Jove, or Mercury,
Brutus is ta'en, Brutus is ta'en, my lord.
That never mean to part.
be what they are, there were no fear in marriage,
Pray, tell 'em thus much from me:
His guard have brought him thither.
What, will the aspiring blood of Lancaster
Thou that beget'st him that did thee beget,
Stephano, two Neapolitans 'scaped!
No more, but that you read
That we, like savages, may worship it.
at Shrewsbury.
bewitchment of some popular man and give it
And like me to the peasant boys of France,
Sorrow and grief of heart
A good construction. I raised him, and I pawn'd
youth, grieve, be effeminate, changeable, longing
Have with you. I would rather hear them scold than fight.
For, you trow, nuncle,
SCENE IX. Another part of the plain.
Harry, I do not only marvel where thou spendest thy
My youth can better spare my blood than you,
To-morrow night, when Phoebe doth behold
Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
Of such misery doth she cut me off.
Being wanted, he may be more wonder'd at,
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
He was the wretched'st thing when he was young,
Enter a Servant
Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter.
Take thou no care, it shall be heeded.
Where art thou, death?
I would my skill were subject to thy curse.
the king shall know your mind.
Neglect him not, make use now, and provide
under the dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear of
O, here I lift this one hand up to heaven,
O that I knew he were but in by the week!
O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
not me: therefore I am no sheep.
I would they had not come between us.
The third he caper'd, and cried, 'All goes well,'
With eyes wide open, standing, speaking, moving,
For, since the cardinal fell, that title's lost:
SCENE I. A heath.
And dare not take up arms like gentlemen.
And set them upright at their dear friends' doors,
Your grace,
desire to lay my bones there. Besides, the penitent
Sir, do you know me?
On any ground that I am ruler of,
How long is't since?
But must be look'd to speedily and strongly.
But ever see that man!
To love her for her mother's sake, that loved him,
Have you sent to Bottom's house ? is he come home yet?
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
And here an engine fit for my proceeding.
By so much is the wonder in extremes.
As any in Vienna, on my word.
bread and garlic: say that I said so. Farewell.
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
The purposes I bear, which are, or cease,
In earnestness to see him: seld-shown flamens
Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
I do not think so: since he went into France, I
Have the patricians of you. For your wants,
Stoop low within those bounds we have o'erlook'd
You look on me: what wreck discern you in me
Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool to him!
Nor shall not now: for in companions
Whom the blind waves and surges have devour'd.
Exeunt
Nor conversant with ease and idleness,
A short alarum, then enter the town with soldiers
persuaded I will marry her, out of her own love and
Either of condemnation or approof,
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
But to be frank, and give it thee again.
Draws
Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition:
Are drown'd and lost in his calamities.
Who then shall blame
Must he be then as shadow of himself?
Bids't thou me rage? why, now thou hast thy wish:
What two things?
We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards:
That this is from some mistress, some remembrance:
Enter KING RICHARD and his attendants below
My brother Gloucester's voice? Ay,
Hag-seed, hence!
Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are
To drink to these fair ladies, and a measure
The well-appointed king at Hampton pier
In Ireland have I seen this stubborn Cade
O, that his fault should make a knave of thee,
Portia, art thou gone?
They burn in indignation. I repent:
By medicine life may be prolong'd, yet death
sun.
She cannot be so much without true judgment--
Make yourself mirth with your particular fancy,
So shall you quietly enjoy your hope,
Should be to be protected like a child.
I could not send it,--here it is again,--
May worthy Troilus be half attach'd
Crack nature's moulds, an germens spill at once,
A space for further travel.
love from any: in this, though I cannot be said to
She loved me well deliver'd it to me.
We are, my lord, and come to have the warrant
Posters of the sea and land,
I cannot kiss, that is the humour of it, but, adieu.
Come, father, I'll bestow you with a friend.
SCENE XIV. The same. Another room.
To use so rude behavior, go to, kneel.
boy, half French, half English, that shall go to
That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
Change not your offer made in heat of blood,
Learned and reverend fathers of his order,
Which puts some of us in distemper, but
Where is my wit? I know not what I speak.
We'll answer it,
Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would fain
Enough, I read your fortune in your eye.
Hautboys
Be here at Belmont, she doth stray about
Be it by gins, by snares, by subtlety,
Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear
And, by the near guess of my memory,
More than the locking-up the spirits a time,
The purity and whiteness of my sheets,
Let us be back'd with God and with the seas
as to play the coward with thy indenture and show it
Would curses kill, as doth the mandrake's groan,
He knew me as a wife. As this is true,
Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
Nay, but, Beatrice,--
As Agamemnon and the hand of Greece
O, why should wrath be mute, and fury dumb?
The king reposeth all his confidence in thee.
Where will the old duke live?
So near the cradle of the fairy queen?
The mighty sender, doth he prize you at.
What's pity?
female, or, for thy more sweet understanding, a
him in excellence, but, to know a man well, were to
Strikes him again
Were in his time thought false, and Sinon's weeping
Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly:
having no eyes, look you, wept herself blind at my
Thou hast lost by this a kingdom.
Follow me, then.
To buy his favour, I extend this friendship:
I think his understanding is bereft.
rapes and ravishments he parallels Nessus: he
God shield I should disturb devotion!
Had so much grace to put it in my mind.
Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try,
When from the Dauphin's crest thy sword struck fire,
For he tonight shall lie with Mistress Ford.
This same should be the voice of Friar John.
Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
Five times redeem'd from death: I do not know
particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than
Our will became the servant to defect,
To show some reason, of no little force,
be hanged at home: 'tis dangerous. Well, I perceive
Give me thy hand, here's my purse. Hast any of thy
For that same scrubbed boy, the doctor's clerk,
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
Hear, hear how dying Salisbury doth groan!
How these things came about: so shall you hear
That defence thou hast, betake thee to't: of what
Now, great Thetis' son!
My lord, I pray you, hear me.
As this their jangling I esteem a sport.
He digs and sings
Seduced the pitch and height of all his thoughts
Yet call the ambassador, and, as you please,
The dint of pity: these are gracious drops.
Call forth my household servants: let's to-night
Were it not pity that this goodly boy
Commands me name myself.
End in one purpose, and be all well borne
Here was he merry, hearing of a song.
The king rises.
Your loving uncle, twenty times his worth,
And presently all humbled kiss the rod!
It lifted up its head and did address
Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?
You would say it hath been all in all his study:
Then, Timon, presently prepare thy grave,
But thou mistakest me much to think I do:
Whom thou didst banish, and--which more may
O, 'tis a foul thing when a cur cannot keep himself
every lane's end, every shop, church, session,
How quickly were it gone!
Touching that point.
hurt done!
For our best act. If we shall stand still,
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
'Twill be a good way, and to-morrow the wrestling is.
Derive some pain from you: plague all,
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Then let us teach our trial patience,
Takes from his high respect: thither Macduff
And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people.
A voluntary zeal and an unurged faith
Who knows not that the noble duke is dead?
You lie, up to the hearing of the gods.
Welcome, ass. Now let's have a catch.
Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great
Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
opinion so easily: she was in his company at Page's
For you in my respect are all the world:
Have we mow'd down, in tops of all their pride!
Master, this prisoner freely give I thee,
I am not warm yet, let us fight again.
Fear not, my lord, your servant shall do so.
like bloody villains.
May they not be my oracles as well,
Now, sir, is your name Menenius?
against it with my life.
you must call forth the watch that are their accusers.
Hereditary sloth instructs me.
Then the boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought,
We have ever your good word.
A fair name. Wast born i' the forest here?
Are they not Athenians?
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far
gentleman! A plague upon Antenor!
The quarrel toucheth none but us alone,
Excellent.
The words would add more anguish than the wounds.
bladder. There's villanous news abroad: here was
By gar, me vill kill de priest, for he speak for a
He's right noble:
an ape, in the corner of his jaw, first mouthed, to
Is that the one will help to cut the other.
How so?
I thank your worship for your good counsel:
To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax
Merry or sad shall't be?
Have been beholding to him in his life,
With riotous feeders, when our vaults have wept
In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
All this is so: but what of this, my lord?
Should ravish doters with a false aspect,
I like thy counsel, well hast thou advised:
Dost thou infamonize me among potentates? thou shalt
O, if to fight for king and commonweal
This butcher's cur is venom-mouth'd, and I
I think no less. Dost thou not wish in heart
Dost thou affect her, Claudio?
Would you'ld pardon me,
Why, no.
And a thousand vagram posies.
Exit Moonshine
send her your page, no remedy.
Yet swear not, lest ye be forsworn again.
Is cold in amity and painted peace,
Mayor, farewell: thou dost but what thou mayst.
English John Talbot, captains, calls you forth,
assistance therein.
I will not swear these are my hands: let's see,
As, heaven it knows, I would not have him speed.
Sir boy, now let me see your archery,
For he hath still been tried a holy man.
To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.
Say, Signior Gremio, What can you assure her?
That I am Viola: which to confirm,
Though war nor no known quarrel were in question,
crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but
Thou villain base,
He thought 'twas witchcraft--but I am much to blame,
The confirmation of my promised gift,
They swear
Your potent and infectious fevers heap
master's command, he must carry for a present to his lady.
The gods are deaf to hot and peevish vows:
Must be as boisterously maintain'd as gain'd,
officers in Windsor, to search for a gentleman that
Say that I wish he never find more cause
Are you all resolved to give your voices? But
With all his threatening band of Typhon's brood,
I'll beat him too.
I pray thee, bear my former answer back:
O Iago, the pity of it, Iago!
Alack, alack the day!
honest Antonio,--O that I had a title good enough
And ring these fingers with thy household worms
And part the numbers.
Is dearest to me. I have no skill in sense
Whose far unworthy deputy I am,
Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave?
Long in his highness' favour, and do justice
And ours with thine, befall what fortune will.
An 'twould, you'ld carry half.
my life, except my life.
I for an Edward weep, so do not they:
When Imogen is dead.
Yet throw such changes of vexation on't,
That words seem'd buried in my sorrow's grave.
Be't their comfort
The Page whistles
scurrility, witty without affection, audacious without
Enter BAPTISTA and LUCENTIO
In our own natures frail, and capable
The stars, I see, will kiss the valleys first:
It is your music, madam, of the house.
I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
And give me leave,
And thou, Lord Bourbon, our high admiral,
Take not the quarrel from his powerful arm,
to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
Confirm it so! Confounded be your strife!
Speak to me:
And thus I set my foot on 's neck,' even then
Were I but now the lord of such hot youth
my lieutenant Peto meet me at town's end.
You and your apron-men, you that stood so up much
Lucy, farewell, no more my fortune can,
And see them ready 'gainst their mother comes.
I have convey'd aboard, and I have bought
What's the matter, sir?
But for my daughter Katharina, this I know,
young earl. Beware of them, Diana, their promises,
But where is Kate? I stay too long from her:
And for this cause awhile we must neglect
We'll pull his plumes and take away his train,
Well begun, Tranio.
thy tongue. Kerely bonto, sir, betake thee to thy
To RICHMOND
But she herself is hit lower: have I hit her now?
never think to marry: I must not seem proud: happy
quite from the answer of his degree.
Who can come in and say that I mean her,
As in a theatre, whence they gape and point
For that I woo, thou therefore hast no cause,
Hear me, Beatrice,--
The Lady Anne pass from her coronation?
Exit. Knocking within
Do not I know you for a favourer
master agree? I have brought him a present. How
But 'be thou true,' say I, to fashion in
Why, he hath not been thrice in my company! What
We cannot cross the cause why we were born,
Henry is able to enrich his queen
Let not my sister read it in your eye,
Welcome him then according to his worth.
Very many, men and women too. I heard of one of
where you shall hear us confer of this, and by an
Why, sir, I'll strike nothing: I pray you,--
Tell them that God bids us do good for evil:
Continual meditations, tears, and sorrows,
I have lived fourscore years and upward, I never
And ride upon their backs, he trod the water,
A crew of patches, rude mechanicals,
come not near Casca, have an eye to Cinna, trust not
graces be in one woman, one woman shall not come in
That you did fear is done.
Meet me to-morrow in St. George's field,
thus, and then the people fell a-shouting.
Horns.
I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep,
But, now you have it, take it.
occupation, have at it with you.
Re-enter Boatswain
it never be day? I will trot to-morrow a mile, and
Nay, let it rest where it began at first.
Why should he call her whore? who keeps her company?
It were a delicate stratagem, to shoe
A very little little let us do.
Which towards you are most gentle, you shall find
Enter, in conquest, with drum and colours, EDMUND,  KING LEAR and CORDELIA, prisoners, Captain, Soldiers,  and c
His baseness that ensued?
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
When she was young you woo'd her, now in age
For this description of thine honesty? A pox upon
His welcomes forth, asks thee the son forgiveness,
To countenance this horror! Ring the bell.
When the devout religion of mine eye
With observation, the which he vents
I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of
'Some achieve greatness,'--
things answer my mind.
Glendower speaks to her in Welsh, and she answers him in the same
Even he, sir, did you know him?
Women will all turn monsters.
Impatient answers from my gentle tongue?
And even there, methinks, an angel spake:
Re-enter GRIFFITH, with CAPUCIUS
He is not sick.
the borrowed veil of modesty from the so seeming
There's a bargain made.
Quiet thy cudgel, thou dost see I eat.
Unto the frowning judge? or who pronounced
her as love hath pursued me, which hath been on the
Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.
To shame unvulnerable, and stick i' the wars
This man shall set me packing:
For things that others do, and, when we fall,
so honourable a grave as to stuff a botcher's
Go find him out,
Flight cannot stain the honour you have won,
And Somerset, with Oxford fled to her:
'Tis the infirmity of his age: yet he hath ever
Why, what tumultuous clamour have we here?
Paris is dirt to him, and, I warrant, Helen, to
I thank your worship: I shall make my master glad
assurance and all the preparation overthrown.
A thing like death to chide away this shame,
Who can accuse me? wherein am I guilty?
I give a sparing limit to my tongue.
Must be provided for: and you shall put
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
The tender leaves of hopes, to-morrow blossoms,
To give or to forgive, but when we have stuff'd
That hardly can I cheque my eyes from tears.
That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit
Be not, as is our fangled world, a garment
I do well believe your highness, and
Call me to your remembrances.
both parts, thou borest thy ass on thy back o'er
Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave,
And makes me poor indeed.
The dangers of the time. You swore to us,
And the flesh'd soldier, rough and hard of heart,
Did in your name receive it: pardon the
toes look through the over-leather.
Meet thee at Milford-Haven!--I forgot to ask him one
me say, 'saving your reverence, a husband:' and bad
Prithee, go hence,
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
No longer shall you gaze on't, lest your fancy
Besides two thousand ducats by the year
Dear queen, that ended when I but began,
Were you a woman, youth,
But I beseech your grace that I may know
Cut off by course of justice,--
Stocks brought out
play is preferred. In any case, let Thisby have
But meeting with Salerio by the way,
Like death, when he shuts up the day of life,
Which sometime they have used with fearful flight,
As much as one sound cudgel of four foot--
appropriation to his own good parts, that he can
Which, wash'd away, shall scour my shame with it:
Which must be done by praising me as much
Enter Provost, CLAUDIO, JULIET, and Officers
Enter BEATRICE
And cook to honest creatures: but 'tis not so,
I will anon: first, let us go to dinner.
I humbly thank you for't.
your daughter.
A pox of that jest! and I beshrew all shrows.
Some say that ravens foster forlorn children,
All the better, we shall be the more marketable.
To reconcile me to his friendly peace:
that I love thee. I will not say, pity me, 'tis
You take my part from me, sir, I have the most cause
Thou art not here: murder is thy alms-deed,
And thank your lordship. By your leave, sweet ladies:
And her to whom my thoughts are humbled all,
And mortal eyes cannot endure the devil.
Of me more must be heard of, say, I taught thee,
Speak, Winchester, for boiling choler chokes
down an ass! But, masters, remember that I am an
When they are bound to serve, love and obey.
I'll be sworn--
And now, sweet emperor, be blithe again,
Enter a Gentleman
Which I did store to be my foster-nurse
Quite from his nature: he cannot flatter, he,
And so in me, and so, I think, in all:
Farewell, father.
And many an orphan's water-standing eye--
For we to-morrow hold divided councils,
And let it be more than Alcides' twelve.
Well.
This palpable-gross play hath well beguiled
And tell the pleasant prince this mock of his
Prithee, come hither: what fair lady's that?
Here are the beetle brows shall blush for me.
can.
The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath,
Of egal justice, used in such contempt?
Exeunt
As great as that thou fear'st.
For not being at court? Your reason.
To offer up a weak poor innocent lamb
Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud,
O, will you eat no grapes, my royal fox?
All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, thane of Cawdor!
Had been my father's sons! then had my prize
Two, two, a shirt and a smock.
I shall lack voice: the deeds of Coriolanus
against all married mankind, so curses all Eve's
know Anne's mind for that: never a woman in Windsor
This service is not service, so being done,
Here is the babe, as loathsome as a toad
O sun,
O learned judge! Mark, Jew: a learned judge!
Than pity to our prayers. Down: an end,
And when my uncle told me so, he wept,
O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee
Sings in GONZALO's ear
We have: whereupon the Earl of Worcester
What think'st thou of the fair Sir Eglamour?
And Julia herself did give it me,
Let fools do good, and fair men call for grace.
A bastard son of Priam's.
Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew
But better service have I never done you
And the queen too, and that presently.
Either from Venice, or some unhatch'd practise
What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
Breaks out to savage madness. Look he stirs:
Are but black to Rosalind.
outlive that day to see His greatness and to teach
To BIANCA
The leaves and fruit maintain'd with beauty's sun,
I hope so.
Out of his rags! Here's a large mouth, indeed,
To teach you gamut in a briefer sort,
Get fire and meat for these poor men:
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, FERDINAND, GONZALO, and others
and our wives' heels.
Exit IMOGEN, to the cave
They all start
As I suck blood, I will some mercy show.
How many is one thrice told?
For things are often spoke and seldom meant:
But, hark, I hear the footing of a man.
Ye have angels' faces, but heaven knows your hearts.
Vines and clustering bunches growing,
foolish ear.
sentenced him. To make you understand this in a
Sly, old Sly's son of Burtonheath, by birth a
Hear me a word,
Whose men and dames so jetted and adorn'd,
And with no less nobility of love
And weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath,
To-morrow, or next day, they will be here.
Will give him cable.
The emperor's court is like the house of Fame,
And now to Paris, in this conquering vein:
Peace to your highness!
I take my leave of you.
Let Pericles believe his daughter's dead,
But his red colour hath forsook his cheeks.
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
these please you?
And hath been from his youth: pray you, keep seat,
But the word 'maid,' cheats the poor maid of that,
Madam, please you peruse this letter.--
How goes our reckoning?
I'll deliver all,
ours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me,
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
And does the meanest chares. It were for me
Or, whilst I can vent clamour from my throat,
our plot is a good plot as ever was laid, our
Marry, he must have a long spoon that must eat with
Sick, O, sick!
Shalt break into corruption: thou shalt think,
A devil.
Touching our person seek we no revenge,
At nothing can be more. I'll to my book,
Stabs him
They in themselves, good-sooth, are too too light.
Without assistance.
Who told me, when we both lay in the field
Exeunt all but IAGO and CASSIO
His countenance for the battle, which being done,
Flavius.
Let him be apprehended.
Very hand of heaven.
Read here, young Arthur.
Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,
Henry King of England,  and c.
Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act
Flourish. Trumpets sound, and drums
His name, I pray you.
lord: she is never sad but when she sleeps, and
If any plague hang over us, 'tis he.
The one for ever earn'd a royal husband,
Is he here, say you? 'tis more than I know, I'll
present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's leather.
Perchance you think too much of so much pains?
Whisper the spirits of thine enemies
And two Northumberlands, two braver men
rogue's company. If the rascal hath not given me
My lord is fall'n into an epilepsy:
Yes, verily and in truth, you shall take it, or I
Of spirit so still and quiet, that her motion
SCENE IV. Paris. The palace.
Vile worm, thou wast o'erlook'd even in thy birth.
To answer twenty thousand such as you.
Take, therefore, shipping, post, my lord, to France,
Hath into monstrous habits put the graces
[Aside]  I'll meet you at the turn. What a
The commonwealth hath daily run to wreck,
That dotes on Cassio, as 'tis the strumpet's plague
Dead, for my life!
As his wise mother wrought in his behalf,
ales and his cups, so also Harry Monmouth, being in
less reason. Let us be conjunctive in our revenge
Drawing her aside
Thou,--and thou,--and thou:--you have served me well,
The power that I have on you is, to spare you,
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, with her hair about her ears, RIVERS, and DORSET after her
SCENE II. Padua. Before HORTENSIO'S house.
Between our statures, she hath urged her height,
Well, my legitimate, if this letter speed,
lose thee nothing, do it carefully. And the
With one of an ingraft infirmity:
the tinker! Starveling! God's my life, stolen
To look our dead, and then to bury them,
As the winter to foul weather.
Your princely father and my loving lord!
Would! nay, I will.
What are thy rents? what are thy comings in?
Where none will sweat but for promotion,
An adder did it, for with doubler tongue
I do beseech your lordship, call her back.
And leave you to attend him: some dear cause
But then more 'why?' why have they dared to march
To make the fox surveyor of the fold?
Or of the deadly seven, it is the least.
Yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey,
notable cause to work.
How is it, general? have you not hurt your head?
I will not stir, nor wince, nor speak a word,
It honour'd him.
Brother,--
I care no more for than I do for heaven,
cannot be cunning in her, if it be, she makes a
Great: for mine own part, I know not the degree of
Though peril to my modesty, not death on't,
hast thou no faith in thee?
God 'ild you, sir, I desire you of the like. I
And do the murder first: if he awake,
These oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn.
Or else his head's assurance is but frail.
To see this vaulted arch, and the rich crop
With that which here his passion doth express?
Because authority, though it err like others,
'O no, no, no, no, you dare not.'
Shall now, in mutual well-beseeming ranks,
Than terms can give thee out!
If in his death the gods have us befriended,
Exeunt, severally
beast, abide?
How is't, my noble lord?
That cursed Chiron and Demetrius
Fie on thee, wretch! 'tis pity that thou livest
look you, this leek: because, look you, you do not
This night to play before him.
know'st this,
O thou damned cur! I shall--
It is most meet we arm us 'gainst the foe,
We charge you, in God's name, and the king's,
I promise thee.
in studs, and here and there pieced with packthread.
On whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe my prayer
all free men? As Caesar loved me, I weep for him,
The singing masons building roofs of gold,
To thee, herself, and many a Christian soul,
Doth that grieve thee?
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
And though that nature with a beauteous wall
Repair me with thy presence, Silvia,
apparel fits your thief.
You loved, I loved for intermission.
Laugh at me, make their pastime at my sorrow:
He's walking in the garden--thus, and spurns
Rather than they shall pound us up: our gates,
This fellow here, with envious carping tongue,
I do not cross you, but I will do so.
The names of those their nobles that lie dead:
I have spoke already, and it is provided,
Now, by my hood, a Gentile and no Jew.
Good madam, hear me speak,
Pointing to the nurse
we'll be all three sworn brothers to France: let it
No, holy father, throw away that thought,
Prefix'd by Angelo: see this be done,
Will soon recover his accustom'd health.
Please you, I'll write your ladyship another.
Touch me not so near:
Why, you are nothing then: neither maid, widow, nor wife?
married to-morrow:
Join we together, for the public good,
Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living
turned into a maid, for they are all girdled with
O heavy ignorance! thou praisest the worst best.
It is spoke freely out of many mouths--
Exit TITANIA with her train
Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
Now, perjured Henry! wilt thou kneel for grace,
I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
Your hand, my Perdita: so turtles pair,
To Lacedaemon did my land extend.
Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge
So bloodily hast struck?
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
And punish them to your height of pleasure.
A virtuous and a Christian-like conclusion,
It adds more sorrow to my want of joy:
minority: his enter and exit shall be strangling a
I do not care: I'll give thrice so much land
Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.
Ha, majesty! how high thy glory towers,
next him now, parts bread with him, pledges the
I am a stranger here in Gloucestershire:
Yes, madam, fair.
O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound,
I gird thee with the valiant sword of York:
Not I, believe me.
Kneels
The cowslips tall her pensioners be:
My lord, some two days since I saw the prince,
Of me for jests, but now I'll set my teeth,
I will wage against your gold, gold to it: my ring
Alas, a crimson river of warm blood,
To make a second fall of cursed man?
Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not:
And yet, between my soul's desire and me--
Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner?
Let me play the lion too: I will roar, that I will
is so admired?
I will not bed her.
To his conveyance I assign my wife,
With sands that will not bear your enemies' boats,
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself,
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl,
And many more of noble fame and worth:
'Twas full of darnel, do you like the taste?
I will continue that I broach'd in jest.
The sorrow that delivers us thus changed
Against him first: he's a very dog to the commonalty.
Lob down their heads, dropping the hides and hips,
Too headstrong for their mother. See, we fools!
letters of commendations to the king.
He waged me with his countenance, as if
Importunes personal conference with his grace:
support usurers, repeal daily any wholesome act
That slew himself, and wise Laertes' son
That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
Why tough senior? why tough senior?
Thou art a widow, yet thou art a mother,
wag, shall there be gallows standing in England when
Fly, fly, fly! Sir Humphrey Stafford and his
And so have I, boy.
On plots and errors, happen.
To shake all cares and business from our age,
I do not like their coming. Now I think on't,
Patience, good sir.
Coistrel that comes inquiring for his Tib,
After the slaughter of so many peers,
What Antony shall speak, I will protest
This disease is beyond my practise: yet I have known
Ready to go, but never to return.
Winds his horn. Drums strike up: a peal of ordnance. Enter soldiers
Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself,
Plague him with flies: though that his joy be joy,
Enter a Messenger
[Aside]  I am almost afraid to stand alone
Caesar, I go.
To do in slander. And to behold his sway,
O, if a virgin,
Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.
Yes, it is apparel.
all my fame for a pot of ale and safety.
And darts his light through every guilty hole,
Go on: right royal.
Stabb'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury?
Now, presently: bid them come forth and hear me,
With 'Thanks, my countrymen, my loving friends,'
Can have no note, unless the sun were post--
O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
Married Richard Earl of Cambridge, who was son
I love thee brotherly, but envy much
Pray God you do.
cannot choose, and to eat no fish.
I do confess it, and repent it, father.
Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothing
Nay, but thou shalt stay too: I would my son
woes also: and yet there is a virtuous man whom I
And sleep in spite of thunder.
Exit above
gentleman of excellent breeding, admirable
that damned brawn shall play Dame Mortimer his
And by the benefit of his wished light,
Since you are strangers and come here by chance,
Let me be Duke of Clarence, George of Gloucester,
Used to command, untaught to plead for favour.
nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
Perforce, against all cheques, rebukes and manners,
What fashion, madam shall I make your breeches?
In the extremity of great and little,
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion
with two broken points: his horse hipped with an
Embrace him, dear Thaisa, this is he.
What lusty trumpet thus doth summon us?
It is the curse of kings to be attended
what, for if I tell you, I am no true Athenian. I
This to my cousin Scroop, and all the rest
Or thee? or thee? or any of your faction?
This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt,
is worn, the jest may remain after the wearing sole singular.
A repulse: though your attempt, as you call it,
Is this a dagger which I see before me,
O that I served that lady
Even so mayst thou the giddy men of Rome.
Gloucester, see here the tainture of thy nest.
And throw between them all the food thou hast,
my purse, I am yet thy debtor. Boy, go along with
Go and commend me to my brother Cassius,
Imparts this, which if you, or stupefied
I'll send for you anon. Sir, I obey the mandate,
There is a world elsewhere.
Go, call my men, and let us straight to him,
'Zounds, ye fat paunch, an ye call me coward, by the
say ay and no to these particulars is more than to
Such as I can, twice o'er, I'll weep and sigh,
Can change their moons and bring their times about
crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is
Alarum. Enter YORK, EDWARD, RICHARD, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and Soldiers
To know for what he comes, and whence he comes,
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
Ay, I do so.
Of comfort, kingdom, kindred, freedom, life.
Who saw the sun to-day?
Kneeling
Stoop'd as to foot us: his ascension is
Take this purse of gold,
Madam, I am not well.
Marry, this well carried shall on her behalf
By your pardon, sir, I was then a young traveller,
I still pour in the waters of my love
When she will take the rein I let her run,
He means in flesh.
Take heed, the quarrel's most ominous to us: if the
night to catch my horse, if I did not think thou
To Caesar will I render
that loves quails, but he has not so much brain as
To them to use your signet and your name,
Where should he find it purer than in Blanch?
If my cap would buy a halter:
Disasters in the sun, and the moist star
Tucket within
Nay, I'll read it first, by your favour.
With absolute Marina: so
First, to thy sacred state wish I all happiness.
The queen from France hath brought a puissant power:
Untent his person and share the air with us?
My tender youth was never yet attaint
Should 'scape the true acquaintance of mine ear.
Help me, my women,--we must draw thee up:
The circumstance I'll tell you more at large.
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
Sweet doctor, you shall be my bed-fellow:
Tell him, myself, the mayor and citizens,
distraction, they conveyed me into a buck-basket.
But let that go.
Your son in Scotland being thus employ'd,
Biron is like an envious sneaping frost,
I go, Andronicus: and for thy hand
Here comes my lord.
Sweet York, begin: and if thy claim be good,
Pisa renowned for grave citizens.
By my troth, I will speak my conscience of the king:
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found
But I will prove that two on's are as good
I'll do't before I speak,--that you make known
But I should think of shallows and of flats,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
We are blest that Rome is rid of him.
And, noble Dauphin, albeit we swear
following. Now, sir, for the manner,--it is the
Did hang a salt-fish on his hook, which he
The Gentlemen and the two Sailors descend, and go on board the barge
Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in
a beggar: Cressida was a beggar. My lady is
Then be my passions bottomless with them.
And bound I am to Padua, there to visit
The forfeit, sovereign, of my servant's life,
to give her, but have given largely to many to know
easy it is to put 'years' to the word 'three,' and
Some patient leisure to excuse myself.
Hear you, sir?
him, for she'll be up twenty times a night, and
Neanmoins, je reciterai une autre fois ma lecon
Ay, and twenty such.
SCENE II. The same.
Frenchwoman.
A book of prayers on their pillow lay,
See, ho! who is that there?
For every minute is expectancy
seal-ring of my grandfather's worth forty mark.
That my discovery be not aimed at,
Your purse, still open, hath built Lord Cerimon
And so we'll leave you to your meditations
I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire,
How sweetly you do minister to love,
How, my pretty York? I pray thee, let me hear it.
Which craves the instant use.
And who doth lead them but a paltry fellow,
Speak it in French, king, say, 'pardonne moi.'
Suivez-vous le grand capitaine.
I'll prove it on his body, if he dare,
Or race of youthful and unhandled colts,
I have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it.
And descant on mine own deformity:
Aaron, what shall I say unto the empress?
Without discharge, money, or furniture,
Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
will have it as it ought to be, you must allow Vox.
Possess us, possess us, tell us something of him.
Lo, how hollow the fiend speaks within him! did not
Looking on KENT
To be desired to give. It much would please him,
Hautboys and torches. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM,  DONALBAIN, BANQUO, LENNOX, MACDUFF, ROSS, ANGUS, and Attendants
That, when he waked, of force she must be eyed.
The wildest hath not such a heart as you.
bethought him of his quarrel, and he finds that now
And whispers to his pillow, as to him,
There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
Why, my boy?
That were his lackeys: I cried 'hum,' and 'well, go to,'
Set at liberty: the fat ribs of peace
Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
Till seven at night: to make society
Yet in the number I do know but one
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
A place of potency and sway o' the state,
The victory fell on us.
Sought to entrap me by intelligence,
And Dick the Butcher,--
But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve
tender air, and when from a stately cedar shall be
Which is so plain that Exeter doth wish
O, be thou damn'd, inexecrable dog!
Where souls do couch on flowers, we'll hand in hand,
By'r lakin, I can go no further, sir,
Gladly, my lord.
And never will I rise up from the ground
Farewell, my lord: what you shall know meantime
Exit BARDOLPH
And as for Pericles,
My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say.
That ever govern'd man.
And suddenly resolve me in my suit.
relief, if it be but for that. if I can recover him
O Charmian,
As you did mean indeed to be our brother,
That late thou gavest me, for Mercutio's soul
Be angry when you will, it shall have scope,
Marry, sir, I think, if you handled her privately,
After our great good cheer. Pray you, sit down,
Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain:
Charm ache with air and agony with words:
At Friar Patrick's cell,
have so much experience for my pains, and so, with
But most himself, if he could see his shame.
This is a thing that Angelo knows not, for he this
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and
Ay, ay, and she hath offer'd to the doom--
But thankful even for hate, that is meant love.
Master, be one of them, it's an honourable kind of thievery.
That lie too heavy on the commonwealth,
resolved to die.
Not stingless too.
pulled down?
Winding up days with toil and nights with sleep,
And for we think the eagle-winged pride
To tender it herself. I undertook it,
I hope, upon familiarity will grow more contempt:
Draw near, Queen Margaret, and be a witness
And long hereafter say unto his child,
Adonis painted by a running brook,
To bed, to bed! there's knocking at the gate:
What else? and that succession be determined.
I'll give my jewels for a set of beads,
You equal potents, fiery kindled spirits!
For him, I partly know his mind--to find thee
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
They hail'd him father to a line of kings:
Say, man, were these thy words?
her.
no money at all and a little more wit, return again to Venice.
you be so pashful? your shoes is not so good: 'tis
And, Somerset, we'll commit thee thither,
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
Out, fool! I forgive thee for a witch.
Not worth my thinking. How now, poet!
Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow,
To change blows with thee for our day of doom.
And you the blacker devil!
O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
for up and down she doth resemble thee:
Are you not good?
Lady, you utter madness, and not sorrow.
Run, boy, run, run, and seek him out.
pestiferous reports of men very nobly held, can
The wanton stings and motions of the sense,
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Visit his countrymen and banquet them?
Good sooth, it show'd well in you: do so now:
Who are they that complain unto the king,
With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.
I would wish me only he.
To join in Hymen's bands,
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
I am a fool, and full of poverty.
Her fruit-trees all upturned, her hedges ruin'd,
conceits shall govern.
One three of them, by their own report, sir, hath
In that I live and for that will I die.
And be it death proclaimed through our host
come to pass, say Pompey told you so.
you, and so now I speak my agitation of the matter:
Enter BANQUO
[Within]  Let me go in to see the generals,
With promise of his sister, and what else,
which sold the towns in France, he that made us pay
O heaven!
There's not a whittle in the unruly camp
example of others. God keep your worship! I wish
Well ta'en, and like a buzzard.
A brain that nourishes our nerves, and can
Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?
Bring this apparel to my chamber, that is the second
For wooing here until I sweat again,
Some horrible conceit: if thou dost love me,
It most of all these reasons bindeth us,
Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
Sir Hugh, my husband says my son profits nothing in
While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou
How 'tis abroad. Pompey is strong at sea,
The plague of Greece upon thee, thou mongrel
to a second, that have so mightily persuaded him
Turns what he list. The king will know him one day.
Most noble sir,
To whom God will, there be the victory!
Acordo linta.
What I can do I will, and more I will
By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found
What surety of the world, what hope, what stay,
So Got udge me, that is a virtuous mind.
That possible strength might meet, would seek us through
And generally, whoever the king favours,
My lord, I have news to tell you.
Will you help? an ass-head and a coxcomb and a
I would your highness would depart the field:
SCENE III. The same. The Forum.
Being destined to a drier death on shore.
Officious, and not valiant, you have shamed me
And cries aloud 'Tarry, dear cousin Suffolk!
No remedy.
SCENE I. Athens. The palace of THESEUS.
[Sings]
Graces her subjects, and her thoughts the king
Exit
I have from their confines call'd to enact
SCENE I. A desert place.
I say I love thee more than he can do.
Good Signior Leonato, you are come to meet your
Have I not in a pitched battle heard
For daring to affy a mighty lord
And will she yet debase her eyes on me,
Then I would he were here alone, so should he be
Enter PAROLLES
At all a friend to truth.
That knit your sinews to the strength of mine.
If that it be the work of any hand!
Than this pure soul shall be: all princely graces,
Nay, we will all of us be there to fetch him.
He gave the stablishment of Egypt, made her
Methinks, false hearts should never have sound legs,
After the thing it loves.
Enter CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
His secret murders sticking on his hands,
That now I aim at.
Bring forth the body of old Salisbury,
Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
O Jesu, he doth it as like one of these harlotry
excellent sweet lady, and, out of all suspicion,
I mean, to go, sir, to enter.
I had rather hear you chide than this man woo.
Room for Antony, most noble Antony.
Thou art a soul in bliss, but I am bound
Should so with civil and uncivil arms
Pale or red?
Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
Both in his words and meaning: he was never,
I am the king's friend, and will rid his foe.
Those are pearls that were his eyes:
I'd not have given a doit. Hark, how they joy!
You, that are thus so tender o'er his follies,
On the fair Cressid.
O monstrous world! Take note, take note, O world,
But that the poor monster's in drink: an abominable monster!
Thou crossest me? what honour dost thou seek
What hast thou found?
The very place puts toys of desperation,
SCENE V. The same. The senate-house. The Senate sitting.
Sure, there's some wonder in this handkerchief:
I more incline to Somerset than York:
You of my household, leave this peevish broil
Hail, you anointed deputies of heaven!
Make with you by due turns. Only we still retain
to meddle or make. You may be gone, it is not good
O hateful error, melancholy's child,
Alone I did it. Boy!
[Reads]
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Among the bands--may drive us to a render
Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
If I see any thing to-night why I should not marry
No way to that, for weakness, which she enter'd.
Know that the people of Rome, for whom we stand
Avaunt! be gone! thou hast set me on the rack:
Hath gained thy daughter princely liberty.
Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily,
O king Stephano! O peer! O worthy Stephano! look
We shall find a time, Audrey, patience, gentle Audrey.
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart,
Things done without example, in their issue
horns upon his head, for a branch of victory. Have
Yet, I persuade myself, to speak the truth
She dreams of him that has forgot her love,
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,
Quench'd in the chaste beams of the watery moon,
Enough, with over-measure.
Enter a Post
Then he's a rogue, and a passy measures panyn: I
I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore, good heavens,
The dinner attends you, sir.
I am sure you have: speak truth, ye're honest men.
may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal to
A woman sometimes scorns what best contents her.
When I am dull with care and melancholy,
The meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold:
We'll be friends first.
Naught to do with mistress Shore! I tell thee, fellow,
Yoke-fellow to his honour-owing wounds,
If that his majesty would aught with us,
SCENE III. The forest.
Accomplish'd with the number of thy hours,
Upon the wasted building, suddenly
You go not till I set you up a glass
Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded
No, by no means.
Were you the doctor and I knew you not?
And then he sends you word
Who should be trusted, when one's own right hand
the issue?
That quicken even with blowing. O thou weed,
PROLOGUE
Enter IMOGEN
Of my young Harry. O that it could be proved
My liege,
And that, my state being gall'd with my expense,
And with your puissant arm renew their feats:
Of our fair cousin Dauphin, for we hear
The god of love,
The advancement of your children, gentle lady.
And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother
In motion of no less celerity
That murder'd me: I would forget it fain,
Our old and faithful friend, we are glad to see you.
Unless your thoughts went on my way.
What, art so near? If thou'lt see a thing to talk
Exit DOLABELLA
looking out at the window.
There's daggers in men's smiles: the near in blood,
Then this is mine opinion: that King Lewis
Which we call 'mollis aer,' and 'mollis aer'
foul knave uncuckolded: therefore, dear Isis, keep
Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead,
Out, scab!
They will not stick to say you envied him,
Out, insolent! thy bastard shall be king,
But crave! Then I'll turn craver too, and so I
true descent,
Nay, that's not your way.
Kindly! Sir, I pray, let me ha't: I have wounds to
Let them be whipped through every market-town, till
monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a
He dreamt to-night the boar had razed his helm:
It is an attribute to God himself,
Gaultier or Walter, which it is, I care not:
Re-enter Page, with TYRREL
My vow was earthly, thou a heavenly love,
Thy life-blood out: if Aaron now be wise,
And when I start, the envious people laugh
Good heart, what grace hast thou, thus to reprove
But that this folly douts it.
Let's in,
My goods, my lands, my reputation,
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
For he is superstitious grown of late,
Good night, Lord Brutus.
That he enchants societies into him,
Too well, too well thou tell'st a tale so ill.
pity him, they took from me the use of mine own
How should this grow?
CAESAR goes up to the Senate-House, the rest following
Except like curs to tear us all to pieces.
Or came it by request and such fair question
And we will both together to the Tower,
piercing statutes daily, to chain up and restrain
All his offences live upon my head
This other doth command a little door
Is the prince there in person?
With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush,
By heaven, I would most gladly have forgot it.
Offering money
More stronger to direct you than yourself,
There you shall find three of your argosies
How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?
How does your honour for this many a day?
No more, great empress, Bassianus comes:
The slaughter of the prince that owed that crown,
bitter fool and a sweet fool?
My honour'd lady,
To wash the eyes of kings.
Lord, for thy justice!
Such a one is a natural philosopher. Wast ever in
As thy auspicious mistress!
I am sure, is sent for.
I leave out ceremony.
Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle,
Of our design. He bears himself more proudlier,
That hath her husband banish'd,--O, that husband!
Cannot pursue us. If thou lovest me then,
To banish him that struck more blows for Rome
Shall this fellow live?
Enter Blackamoors with music, MOTH, FERDINAND,  BIRON, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN, in Russian habits, and masked
I will not come to-day: tell them so, Decius.
Unto an enemy's triumph.
men eat Timon, and he sees 'em not! It grieves me
'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such a natural!
That Christendom shall ever speak his virtue.
Than so much loss of time.
that I will make the duke say 'Let him roar again,
With horror, madly dying, like her life,
And as the butcher takes away the calf
Your speech is passion:
As he'ld burst heaven, threw him on my father,
For pax of little price.
A forked mountain, or blue promontory
Of my boy's face, methoughts I did recoil
Cannot defend our own doors from the dog,
Lucilius' Servant	Put in now, Titus.
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head,
bakers' wives, and they have made bolters of them.
And let Bianca take her sister's room.
Exeunt
We have some secrets to confer about.
From Leonati seat, and cast
Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
Conceiving you: were I but twenty-one,
What means this noise?
Hyperion to a satyr, so loving to my mother
Enter CLEOPATRA and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
I am a poor fellow, sir.
His excellence did earn it, ere he had it.
How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show!
My Lord of York, out of his noble nature,
will amend: for give the dry fool drink, then is
And yet, good Humphrey, is the hour to come
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
robes, burning, burning. If thou wert any way
That murder'd Pompey.
And own no other function: each your doing,
Why thou departed'st from thy native home
them again, lest they consult about the giving up of
And little recks to find the way to heaven
Air, quoth he, thy cheeks may blow,
With his disease of all-shunn'd poverty,
Trebonius knows his time, for, look you, Brutus.
Are idly bent on him that enters next,
Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read
There is no crossing him in 's humour,
The trumpets sound: stand close, the queen is coming.
fob off our disgrace with a tale: but, an 't please
question of the play be then to be considered:
know your answer?
Thy tears would wash this cold congealed blood
Which serves as paste and cover to our bones.
The gaudy, blabbing and remorseful day
conference was sadly borne. They have the truth of
[Aside]  Excellent workman! thou canst not paint a
What is your difference? speak.
You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:
Enter BARDOLPH
From eaves of reeds. Your charm so strongly works 'em
More composition and fierce quality
That wilt not stay her tongue.
By my fidelity, this is not well, Master Ford, this
In honour of a true Plantagenet
As I wear mine, are titles but of scorn.
Hates any man the thing he would not kill?
And I'll be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
Your highness came to England, so will I
Strive to speak big and clap their female joints
I cannot, 'twixt the heaven and the main,
Good morrow to your worship.
Poison and treason are the hands of sin,
Her mother liveth yet, can testify
I'll haunt thee like a wicked conscience still,
Because I wish'd this world's eternity.
Lysander's love, that would not let him bide,
Some, how brief the life of man
He knew his man.
Ay.
Why, there's the privilege your beauty bears:
Congeal'd with this, do make me wipe off both.
Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart,
And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils
So quick bright things come to confusion.
There shall be order for't.
Amen, amen, to that fair prayer, say I,
qualities can make her be refused.
I will.
For my authority bears of a credent bulk,
Breed scrupulous faction: the hated, grown to strength,
I do, I pray God my girdle break.
Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods:
Under whose warrant I impeach thy wrong
Steep'd in the faultless blood of pretty Rutland--
O, never was there queen
Enter two Clowns, with spades,  and c
Therefore, to be possess'd with double pomp,
Do thou so much as dig the grave for him:
Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude.
DON
Of what your reverence shall incite us to.
To Saturn, Caius, not to Saturnine,
However it is spread in general name,
The general is my lover: I have been
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she:
To wish him dead, but thou hadst none to kill him.
Which this man's life did owe you, you'll rejoice
Come, gentle Master Slender, come, we stay for you.
Yet, in protection of their tender ones,
call ladies.
Than for the love of reckless Silvia.
Enter two or three Gentlemen
So many captains, gentlemen and soldiers,
And seek how we may prejudice the foe.
And William de la Pole, first duke of Suffolk.
And I must minister the like to you.
I heard him swear his affection.
cardinally given, might have been accused in
'Tis said, man, and farewell.
The devil himself could not pronounce a title
No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I
Is not yond Diomed, with Calchas' daughter?
Of rare and proved effects, such as his reading
name? why dost thou not speak, Elbow?
The fraud of men was ever so,
Because we know, on Valentine's report,
With wholesome syrups, drugs and holy prayers,
You heedless joltheads and unmanner'd slaves!
It is no time to discourse, so Chrish save me: the
I do not care whether you do or no. She's a fool to
Come on, sir, here's the place: stand still. How fearful
wrestler shall clear all: nothing remains but that
The mere effusion of thy proper loins,
Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man!
I have begun to plant thee, and will labour
Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife?
Thou know'st our meaning. Look for thy reward
No better.
COUNTESS
Men's flesh preserved so whole do seldom win.
Now, God be praised, that to believing souls
A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too,
Before the always wind-obeying deep
Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
Edward, my lord, your son, our king, is dead.
But penetrable to your. kind entreats,
a finer end and went away an it had been any
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
To your direction. Hubert, what news with you?
To ease your country of distressful war,
I told you, I, he was a frantic fool,
On this Ascension-day, remember well,
To prick us to redress? what other bond
Have made you finish.
strength of my youth.
So did he never the sparrow.
A softly-sprighted man, is he not?
Art thou not second woman in the realm,
And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true,
Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
here in the forest on the duke your father.
The air is delicate.
He says thou told'st him that his wife was false:
DON
no boast of it, and for your writing and reading,
For even the breath of what I mean to speak
My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
But not till I am dead. I'll say thou'st gold:
But first, to try her skill,
I have no gift at all in shrewishness,
Laid any scruple in your way, which might
Repair to Pompey's porch, where you shall find us.
The stone's too hard to come by.
And both preposterous, therefore, not 'good lord.'
This is the tragic tale of Philomel,
Which can make gods forsworn? I melt, and am not
[Reads]  'that unlettered small-knowing soul,'--
We had like to have had our two noses snapped off
Fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus.
And to obey shall be in me remorse,
Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
To this fair island and the territories,
Get thee gone, but do it.
Sorry I am to hear what I have heard:
To her acceptance, you have let him go
It stands your grace upon to do him right.
face me out of my wits.
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day.
ANTIPHOLUS
Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
Exeunt
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo,
Your cake there is warm within, you stand here in the cold:
so much as make water but in a sink-a-pace. What
No, no: but all this did I know before.
Be fear'd of doing harm: make your own purpose,
But my entreaty too.
Into her womb convey sterility!
signet is not strange to you.
He's bound unto Octavia.
You offer him, if this be so, a wrong
For thy escape would teach me tyranny,
entail from all remainders, and a perpetual
Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus,
O, who hath done this deed?
But when they should endure the bloody spur,
To take my life. Two of these fellows you
For I am sure you can wish none from me:
A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?
The which you both denied.
To love-sick Dido's sad attending ear
With such things else of quality and respect
Exeunt all but the BASTARD
Still going?
And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us
Exeunt
Let it suffice the greatness of your powers
I have been long a sleeper, but, I hope,
To weep at what I am glad of.
An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.
Go not home.
returned: I could hardly entreat him back: he
And I can speak of the disturbances
That I might sing it, madam, to a tune.
Devils soonest tempt, resembling spirits of light.
And, I beseech you, hear me, who profess
Requite him for your father.
I have access my own love to prefer:
By nothing, for this is no oath:
If he govern the country, you are bound to him
Amen.
been better you had not kissed your three fingers so
Whereas the contrary bringeth bliss,
Ay, sir, there are a crew of wretched souls
There's more in't than fair visage. Bullen!
Then have I kept it to a worthy end.
He hath promised you more than that, or there be liars.
Die quoth-a? Now gods forbid! I have a gown here,
Exeunt
a thing as 'tis. I can hardly forbear hurling things
O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
My noble lord,--
Is she so hot a shrew as she's reported?
That excellent grand tyrant of the earth,
Come, come, you know I gave it you even now.
Thus it is: the Volsces have an army forth, against
This get I by his death: ay me, unhappy!
Most reverend signior, do you know my voice?
Alas, the sea hath cast me on the rocks,
Sith yet there is a credence in my heart,
Not I, sir, pray you, keep on.
Nor you, Lorenzo, Jessica, nor you.
Thou wast born to conquer my country.
Even as I would when I to love begin.
Death may usurp on nature many hours,
workman, a very good tailor.
Heart-hardening spectacles, tell these sad women
Here do I choose, and thrive I as I may!
a vice in her ears, which horse-hairs and
And thank the holy conclave for their loves:
Sing all a green willow:
And that most venerable man which I
I shall both find your lordship judge and juror,
In this time of the night! Bring him away:
And he may fetch him.
Bring him our prisoner.
To give thee from our royal master thanks,
allegiance, mark you this, on my allegiance. He is
How long is't ago, Jack, since thou sawest thine own knee?
Such as he is, full of regard and honour.
I minded him how royal 'twas to pardon
Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments:
No more, no more: worse than the sun in March,
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love,
Both are my kinsmen, and I love them both:
Ah, heavens, it is a most pathetical nit!
The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?
Go seek him there.
Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:
Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
Exit
If he should scorn me so apparently.
SCENE II. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
ANTIPHOLUS
And never false. Soft, ho! what trunk is here
wife: I spy entertainment in her, she discourses,
Desires your highness' company.
Master Shallow, you have yourself been a great
I am afraid to think what I have done,
How now, Marina! why do you keep alone?
Or that the resolute acting of your blood
On whom, as in despite, the sun looks pale,
Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
his land comes to: he will not believe a fool.
I mean, Hortensio is afeard of you.
Thou art a soldier only: speak no more.
The sort to fight with Hector: among ourselves
Exeunt Gaolers
O thou monster Ignorance, how deformed dost thou look!
To greet mine own land with my wishful sight.
So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,
That I am that same wall, the truth is so:
This other Eden, demi-paradise,
And I should be obscured.
Which once thou sworest was worth the looking on,
Exit DESDEMONA
Presented to the tears of soft remorse.
I may truly say, it is a novelty to the world.
So angle we for Beatrice, who even now
Why do you say 'thwack our general '?
Of singular integrity and learning,
If this austere insociable life
me more wit than ever I learned before in my life,
And when the morning sun shall raise his car
thee a steward still, the fellow of servants, and
improvident jealousy? my wife hath sent to him, the
Monmouth: it is called Wye at Monmouth, but it is
Sign'd in thy spoil, and crimson'd in thy lethe.
But at fourscore it is too late a week:
That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
hundred years.
I warrant, an I should live a thousand years,
the honest men and hang up them.
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
Receive so many, and all willingly:
Nay, let them follow:
To speak my mind, and I will through and through
They call him Troilus, and on him erect
This is the tune of our catch, played by the picture
And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks:
Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows,
Did urge me in his act: I did inquire it,
place as I would they should do theirs, to for my
What, I prithee, might be the cause?
In mine own comforts. I prithee, good Iago,
that frailty hath examples for his falling, I should
To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are:
Methinks the truth should live from age to age,
True, true, and now you will be my purgation and let me loose.
Which then blew bitterly against our faces,
The fields are fragrant and the woods are green:
Are punish'd with: the king must take it ill,
Ajax commands the guard to tend on you.
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
hath great care to please his wife.
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
and I am yet so near the manners of my mother, that
Thou hast undone our mother.
Exit
Now, this no more dishonours you at all
Enter the Ghost of BUCKINGHAM
SCENE I. London. A gallery in the palace.
And brought in matter that should feed this fire,
Flourish. Re-enter, from one side, SATURNINUS  attended, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON and AARON, from the other, BASSIANUS, LAVINIA, and others
Created only to calumniate.
Is worth of consuls, senators, patricians,
swear in both the scales against either scale,
is, that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers
O grace! O heaven forgive me!
We shall, my lord,
The emperor and the Earl of Armagnac?
For though abundantly they lack discretion,
There be some women, Silvius, had they mark'd him
What! has your king married the Lady Grey!
Crowns him with flowers and makes him all her joy:
Be it our wives, our children, or ourselves,
What tell'st thou me of robbing? this is Venice,
But as a thing of custom: 'tis no other,
the instant: by heart you love her, because your
To wit, an indigested and deformed lump,
But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
There doth my father lie, and there, this night,
We will require her welcome.
What if I stray'd no further, but chose here?
I did suppose it should be on constraint:
Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!
Pardon me, madam, for I meant not so.
Had tongue at will and yet was never loud,
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
A contract of true love, be not too late.
And to bestow your pity on me: for
Will not the mayor then and his brethren come?
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
Alas, my lord, hang me, if ever I spake the words.
Yes, 'tis the list
Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me,
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
The forlorn soldier, that so nobly fought,
This jest is dry to me. Fair gentle sweet,
for young Charbon the Puritan and old Poysam the
Aloud
I take thy groat in earnest of revenge.
A bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please
Receive thy lance, and God defend the right!
And happy were I in my timely death,
Deck'd in thy rights, as thou art stall'd in mine!
I shall not dine at home,
With the memorials and the things of fame
But come, my lord, and with a heavy heart,
Here comes the rogue.
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
The feast is ready, which the careful Titus
I am a poor fall'n man, unworthy now
must act for me, if thy faith be not tainted with
No, hath not? Rosalind lacks then the love
The lives of those which we have lost in fight
By God, thou hast deceived me, Lancaster,
Although I did admit it as a motive
leopard: wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to
Thy ear is liable, thy food is such
[Singing]
Noise again
My lord hath sent you this note, and by me this
Then, I confess,
What, had he so?
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
it, the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
And, after John of Gaunt, Henry the Fourth,
To keep his daughter company, whose loves
SCENE II. A forest near Rome. Horns and cry of hounds heard.
But stay, I'll read it over once again.
Had that was well worth watching--it was hang'd
Some remedies for life.
Hark, they roar!
How now, my pretty knave! how dost thou?
Why, thou owest God a death.
What say'st thou, man? hast thou as yet conferr'd
the dirt: thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown,
I dare avouch it, sir: what, fifty followers?
Thinking that I mean him, but therein suits
Had fasten'd him unto a small spare mast,
are to me nothing, so in nothing bless them, and to
Certes, she did, the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you.
Never come such division 'tween our souls!
Thou robb'st me of a moiety: he was my son,
What complexion is she of?
As all the metal in your shop will answer.
Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself,
An't please you, sir, to undertake the business for
O, yes, if any hour meet a sergeant, a' turns back for
Madam, you have bereft me of all words,
The red rose and the white are on his face,
Which of these sorrows is he subject to?
woman after this downright way of creation: is it
That is the way to make her scorn you still.
To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
Hie to your chamber: I'll find Romeo
Whilst I propose the selfsame words to thee,
I will lay a plot to try that, and we will yet have
A maid of grace and complete majesty--
As they say spirits do, at midnight, have
I kept were knaves, to serve in meat to villains.
as truly as a man of falsehood may.
He's a disease that must be cut away.
Lest it may mar your fortunes.
Come, my lord, and in our flight
While pride is fasting in his wantonness!
Raining the tears of lamentation
Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! his
question her. God save you, pilgrim! whither are you bound?
A better ear. Menas, I did not think
That shone so brightly when this boy was got,
Which ye shall never have while I live.
With one that wants her wits?
SCENE I. Troy. A street.
When the best hint was given him, he not took't,
I must be answer'd. Dost thou hear, Camillo,
The lords at Pomfret, when they rode from London,
I will, my lord.
Re-enter Clown
Exeunt
'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
I thank thee, and I pray thee, once to-night
I will not hear thee speak. This man, Aufidius,
But when contention and occasion meet,
Forgive me, Valentine: if hearty sorrow
She is sad and passionate at your highness' tent.
To the end of reckoning.
appelez-vous le pied et la robe?
Untimely smother'd in their dusky graves.
Where wilt thou lead me? speak, I'll go no further.
Gardon, O sweet gardon! better than remuneration,
To have his pomp and all what state compounds
against my stomach. Hast any philosophy in thee, shepherd?
For Michael Cassio,
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE
hanged: Charles' wain is over the new chimney, and
Shall rest in London till we come to him.
How died my master, Strato?
Why, sir, cobble you.
Here were a fairy.
Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of
Or foul felonious thief that fleeced poor passengers,
opinion of his rage, skill, fury and impetuosity.
the commonwealth, and turn it, and set a new nap upon it.
Having all day caroused and banqueted:
Containing the deposing of a king
Fixing it only here, should I, damn'd then,
We will not now be troubled with reply:
Re-enter second Servingman
My train are men of choice and rarest parts,
Thou art not so unkind
That it shall hold companionship in peace
O Caesar!--
I will content you, if what pleases you contents
Lie all unlock'd to your occasions.
Your nose smells 'no' in this, most tender-smelling knight.
And what love can do that dares love attempt,
Come hither, mistress. Is your name Goneril?
For, in my mind, you are much bound to him.
And as I thrust thy body in with my sword,
Tut, sir, I could have told you more. In these times
What he hath utter'd I have writ my sister
My nose that bled, or foil'd some debile wretch.--
sweet breath as will utter a brace of words.
To win the Moor again? For 'tis most easy
Hence, and shut your gates upon's.
Bad child, worse father! to entice his own
I blame you not,
I am all these three.
When there is in it but one only man.
What wilt thou prove?
What, go you toward the Tower?
ANTIPHOLUS
ANTIPHOLUS
Is, I know how to curse. The red plague rid you
Good uncle, tell your tale, I have done.
For that's the utmost of his pilgrimage.
Does yet depend.
Thy sheep shall take no harm.
The swallow follows not summer more willing than we
Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,
Here lies my gown.
The agent of thy foul inconstancy,
Gnawing with thy teeth, and be this dismal sight
Than beauty could, display'd. But mark me,
Exit
I am best pleased with that.
In bloody field,
to understand you have prevailed, I am no further
Exit
Enter TROILUS
lack no barns.
major, so that it follows, I am rough and
If the king come, I shall incur I know not
SCENE VI. Another part of the field.
Exit HERMIA
Another fall of man. Their faults are open:
Which in their summer beauty kiss'd each other.
For I am sick and capable of fears,
did atone my countryman and you, it had been pity
Cap and knee slaves, vapours, and minute-jacks!
Madam?
Am I both priest and clerk? well then, amen.
Madam, your majesty is too much sad:
in valour, in every thing illegitimate. One bear will
Enter PARIS, TROILUS, AENEAS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, and DIOMEDES
How to respect you, you are the lord of duty,
That you are well derived.
In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
I mean, Master Slender, what would you with me?
seven year.
SCENE V. A room in the Garter Inn.
husband's purse: he hath a legion of angels.
And after we will both our judgments join
[To BERTRAM]  Use a more spacious ceremony to the
After our sentence plaining comes too late.
Gower is a good captain, and is good knowledge and
But new struck nine.
him: he asked me of what parentage I was, I told
Because Love is blind. O, that you had mine eyes,
That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
You do extend
place and person, generally allowed for your many
No, we'll no Bullens. Speedily I wish
Sir, we have all
I do entreat that we may sup together:
Rosalind is your love's name?
Look you, sir, here comes your ghostly father: do
blow us. There was a haberdasher's wife of small
Most meet
Be stirring as the time, be fire with fire,
Go to, thou hast it ad dunghill, at the fingers'
Worse and worse, she will not come! O vile,
There stay until the twelve celestial signs
I cannot, nor I will not, hold me still,
At supper! where?
He does: he did appoint so.
do any man's heart good to hear me, I will roar,
TROILUS passes
Do it, and happy, by my silver bow!
In brief, we are the king of England's subjects:
only, Mistress Ford, in the simple
I got this ring: 'twas Leonatus' jewel,
My most honourable lord, I am e'en sick of shame,
Believe me, this may be: he promised to meet me two
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
I will, and so will she, I know, my lord.
And not as our confusion, all thy powers
To one consent, may work contrariously:
Lo, yonder, and Titinius mourning it.
Why, so! then am I sure of victory.
That all the miseries which nature owes
Where he shall answer, by a lawful form,
With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits,
Beyond the mark of thought: and the high gods,
Great Jupiter, upon his eagle back'd,
Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,
Who grieves much for your weakness, and by me
For he will live, and laugh at this hereafter.
How do you, Malvolio?
I say no more than truth, so help me God!
And to that youth he calls his Rosalind
Hath been most sound: I charge you by the law,
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, HAMLET,  POLONIUS, LAERTES, VOLTIMAND, CORNELIUS, Lords, and Attendants
With an imperial voice--many are infect.
Your worship had like to have given us one, if you
First, there is the Neapolitan prince.
Ay, that they do, my lord, Hercules and his load too.
fiend, who, saving your reverence, is the devil
first stroke, I'll run him up to the hilts, as I am a soldier.
Are hated most of those they did deceive,
Would become tender.
Then take him up and manage well the jest:
Revenge the jeering and disdain'd contempt
That guard, and most unusual vigilance,
And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains,
To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me,
Is it possible?
So shall I clothe me in a forced content,
Hie thee to hell for shame, and leave the world,
In my most ill-composed affection such
And you by land.
Yea, art thou there?
I would not have your free and noble nature,
Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
love, with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of
out of honesty into English.
Which she shall purchase with still lasting war.
What sense had I of her stol'n hours of lust?
What proof shall I make of that?
That no compunctious visitings of nature
Nor on the beasts themselves, the birds, and fishes,
Sweet lord, you play me false.
I will stir up in England some black storm
And so, farewell.
My love as deep, the more I give to thee,
tree, understand a plain man in his plain meaning:
SCENE VI. Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
The what?
So excellent a king, that was, to this,
Why, what of him?
Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat
And under-honest, in self-assumption greater
Is so from sense in hardness, that I can
By crying comfort from a hollow breast,
Which false hope lingers in extremity.
I am friend to them and you: upon which errand
Here is a thing too young for such a place,
And I will send you to my brother Gloucester,
The mettle of your pasture, let us swear
marry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats
And speak unto the same AEmilia!
In this just suit come I to move your grace.
Some dungeon.
If little faults, proceeding on distemper,
Do you know this Captain Dumain?
Coupled to nature.
That he quit being, and his gentle lady,
The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long.
cooling when 'tis almost an apple: 'tis with him
But, peace! for from broad words and 'cause he fail'd
That she whom all men praised and whom myself,
The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus
That thou hast done me, therefore turn and draw.
May call it back again. Well, believe this,
Which I first gave her, I saw it in his hand:
should be a cuckold, held his hand. Well: on went he
And wouldst thou have me cast my love on him?
A wither'd branch, that's only green at top,
He goes forth gallantly. That he and Caesar might
Sometimes intrude not? who has a breast so pure,
When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar.
Or if thou canst not, O, for shame, for shame,
How now! canst stand?
Are you full of them?
Or the light loss of England for a friend:
thee, but being assured none but myself could move
Of excellent dumb discourse.
Yet living in my glass, even such and so
I hope I shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another.
All happiness bechance to thee in Milan!
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
I am too perfect in, and, but for shame,
Worcester is stolen away to-night, thy father's
He means to recompense the pains you take
have been often bound for no less than my life.
children rawly left. I am afeard there are few die
Do breed unnatural troubles: infected minds
Discuss unto me, art thou officer?
If thou couldst please me with speaking to me, thou
Enter GOWER and WILLIAMS
because musicians have no gold for sounding:
And woo your own destruction.
O, 'tis a burthen, Cromwell, 'tis a burthen
For she is wise, if I can judge of her,
I have a health for you.
And cannot soon revolt and change your mind.
And thee after, when thou hast conquer'd!
O, that your lordship were but now confessor
O Tamora! thou bear'st a woman's face,--
Rob one another. There's more gold. Cut throats:
Admiringly, my liege, at first
And leave my followers here to fight and die?
Do crave admittance to your majesty.
incomprehensible lies that this same fat rogue will
oak not to be wind-shaken.
This is a thing
Sir, you say well and well you do conceive,
Once more I'll mark how love can vary wit.
As merry as when our nuptial day was done,
will swear!
And vows revenge as spacious as between
are matched with as few good deeds, for a' never
I still win of you: for my sake wear this,
Who thou wilt: and if thou please,
Is thicker than a cuckold's horn,--or heard,--
By the law of arms thou wast not bound to answer
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow,
woman! My bed shall be abused, my coffers
In speaking for myself. Yet, by your gracious patience,
swarths: the best persuaded of himself, so
Shall I endure the sight of Somerset?
Being so great, I have no need to beg.
And to be doubted that your Moor and you
beggar: who overcame he? the beggar. The
To cry, good joy: good joy, my lord and lady!
Frowns at this levity. Gentle lords, let's part,
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
blunt as, God help, I would desire they were, but,
Doth fancy any other but Lucentio?
Exeunt Salarino and Salanio
'Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
Fair Jessica shall be my torch-beare r.
Now fills thy sleep with perturbations
What's this for?
As thou hast lent me wit to plot this drift!
The Duke of Exeter is as magnanimous as Agamemnon,
With his prepared sword, he charges home
Truly, I think they are.
Will in concealment wrap me up awhile,
Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
Should rift to hear me, and the words that follow'd
That ever Hector and Achilles meet,
Madam, I was thinking with what manners I might
Here's a Bohemian-Tartar tarries the coming down of
As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye,
Been less, and so more equal ballasting
Have you long sojourned there?
Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
Is that lead slow which is fired from a gun?
Of the none-sparing war? and is it I
Though you perceive me not how I give line.
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I
The gods protect you!
Slaver with lips as common as the stairs
As, nimble jugglers that deceive the eye,
O Cressida, how often have I wished me thus!
Foot it featly here and there,
Does purpose honour to you no less flowing
Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day,
and leave her in such honour as you have trust in,
As the duke said,
My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.
No Rome of safety for Octavius yet,
If it proves so, then loving goes by haps:
Accursed tower! accursed fatal hand
Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
No man alive can love in such a sort
Now the pledge, now, now, now!
And the rarest that e'er came there.
Our city's institutions, and the terms
pour in, pour in, his ambition is dry.
He hath no daughters, sir.
From this enormous state, seeking to give
Will I with wine and wassail so convince
If that thy valour stand on sympathy,
ACT II
night,--I tell this tale vilely:--I should first
They fight, and CLIFFORD falls
Enter CLARENCE and BRAKENBURY
Exeunt BASSIANUS and MARCUS with LAVINIA
You spurn'd me such a day, another time
In the main battle, whose puissance on either side
Exampled by the first pace that is sick
Indeed I weigh not you, and therefore light.
Of thousands that had struck anointed kings
How many would the peaceful city quit,
But from her need.
These griefs and losses have so bated me,
us, not to have us thrive in our mystery.
I'll not have it alter'd.
there's laying on, take't off who will, as they say:
To scatter 'em, as 'tis to make 'em sleep
[To LUCILIUS]           Love you the maid?
our king the good Simonides.
Since what I am to say must be but that
ear that he is in her heart.
Thou wert but a lost monster.
But now I find I had suborn'd the witness,
I am sorry now that I did draw on him.
Have with you, mine host.
Then came each actor on his ass,--
Were in a mask?
Unbuckle, unbuckle.
ACT V
His bleeding sword 'twixt England and fair France.
Therein our letters do not well agree,
Re-enter MALVOLIO
Be patient, for you shall remain with us.
I am to get a man,--whate'er he be,
Hast not a tongue? is she not here?
My lord, my lord,--
But the Norweyan lord surveying vantage,
Thanks, noble Titus, father of my life!
You, his false hopes, the trust of England's honour,
My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon,
And shall these hands, so lately purged of blood,
The office and devotion of their view
Didst undertake it? Why hast thou abused
Now, pray, my lord, let's see the devil's writ.
I have look'd on thousands, who have sped the better
And being once subdued in armed tail,
Giving a ring
See, see, our honour'd hostess!
Ah, rogue!
He whom my father named? your Edgar?
A mother only mock'd with two sweet babes,
Note, if your lady strain his entertainment
How novelty may move, and parts with person,
Upon a friend of mine, who, in hot blood,
No doubt, no doubt, O, 'tis a parlous boy,
The king my father, sir, has drunk to you.
I lost my liberty and they their lives.
mirth: he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's
amiss in them, you gods, make suitable for
Here's Lucentio,
My lord, I know not what the matter is, but, to my
Envy the great nor do the low despise.
Kill men i' the dark!--Where be these bloody thieves?--
A freestone-colour'd hand, I verily did think
How esteemest thou me? I account of her beauty.
appeles de fingres, oui, de fingres.
They should not laugh if I could reach them, nor
I warrant you, that man is not alive
lady in the world.
Exit
I think there are, sir, I heard them talked of.
Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
And shooting well is then accounted ill.
Sennet. Enter KING LEAR, CORNWALL, ALBANY, GONERIL, REGAN, CORDELIA, and Attendants
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
return: let there be covenants drawn between's: my
Or else you would not have bestow'd the heir
Useth the sparrow, did oppress our nest,
By strangling thee in her accursed womb
SCENE I. PETRUCHIO'S country house.
Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once
Is arming, weeping, cursing, vowing vengeance:
His vacancy with his voluptuousness,
He was paid for that: though mean and
Why so am I, we still have slept together,
Skipper, stand back: 'tis age that nourisheth.
This his good melancholy oft began,
This pearl she gave me, I do feel't and see't,
a body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them,
I will, my lord.
shalt see an answerable sequestration:--put but
Your lady
Without a burthen: time as long again
Yet am I sworn and I did purpose, boy,
her than she'll demand.
Refused most princely gifts, am bound to beg
go on the right hand: I will but look upon the
To furnish thee to Belmont, to fair Portia.
By fishermen of Corinth, as we thought.
Je pense que vous etes gentilhomme de bonne qualite.
I pray you, leave me.
And rape, I fear, was root of thine annoy.
And in his simple show he harbours treason.
If he miscarry, farewell wars in France.
Against the Capitol I met a lion,
Northumberland, I hold thee reverently.
Are from their hives and houses driven away.
The latest of my wealth I'll share amongst you.
Lie there, my art. Wipe thou thine eyes, have comfort.
By my faith, sir, but it is, never any body saw it
And take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending.
your niece give me this prerogative of speech,'--
But, I protest, I love to hear him lie
Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies,
his pencil, and the painter with his nets, but I am
importing the mere perdition of the Turkish fleet,
SCENE I. Athens. A hall in Timon's house.
To the dulling of my spirits: sit down, and rest.
Pucelle or puzzel, dolphin or dogfish,
Have torn their souls by turning them from us,
Stay, madam, here is more belongs to her,
Commit the war of white and damask in
to put off, but he hath conjured me beyond them, and
What we have two nights seen.
If silent, why, a block moved with none.
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
Now, brother king, farewell, and sit you fast,
'She loves another'--Who calls, ha?
to dinner, thither.
Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
Think that you are upon a rock, and now
How now, Master Brook! Master Brook, the matter
Exit Provost. ISABELLA comes forward
blind Cupid.
To sinewy Ajax. I will not praise thy wisdom,
And thou shalt find that I exceed my sex.
Till he be brought unto the empress' face,
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
She was often cited by them, but appear'd not:
It is not my consent,
That she beloved knows nought that knows not this:
The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife
Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teach
Breaks scurril jests,
Freely to render what we have in charge,
Unto a mad-brain rudesby full of spleen,
Throw physic to the dogs, I'll none of it.
Macbeth doth come.
And say there is much kindness in the Jew.
Enter THAISA
Our Rome hath such a soldier.'
English, wilt thou have me?
Moreover, he hath left you all his walks,
Although they want the use of tongue, a kind
And tells me 'tis a thing impossible
Were damnable.
Enter BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and the whole army
And take upon command what help we have
There if I grow,
His regiment lies half a mile at least
My lord, I do not know that I did cry.
And he shall our commission bring to you,
Keep thou the napkin, and go boast of this:
I hope I shall have leisure to make good,
Who hath been still a giddy neighbour to us,
Ten thousand bold Scots, two and twenty knights,
Than to work any. Will you rhyme upon't,
But constant, he were perfect. That one error
No, sir, that were fast and loose: thou shalt to prison.
So strive upon your pulse. What, pale again?
His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
I love your son.
Which in your outward actions shows itself
The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it. Now,
Drop-heir that killed lusty Pudding, and Master
My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!
Tell him Revenge is come to join with him,
Madam, before you touch the instrument,
not alone the imperfections of long-engraffed
With strange invention: but of that to-morrow,
They pitched in the ground confusedly,
A heavy reckoning for you, sir. But the comfort is,
'The slaves are ours:' so do I answer you:
See for the news.
Exit CLAUDIO
And get you from our court.
Sir, I know that well enough.
Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick?
If I do not usurp myself, I am.
If you choose that, then I am yours withal.
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
But, if there be, or ever were, one such,
conflict four of his five wits went halting off, and
But shall it be that you, that set the crown
Shore his old thread in twain: did he live now,
That came a-wooing with you, and so many a time,
My waters, on the earth, and not on him.
She hath spied him already with those sweet eyes.
Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become,
Are cast away and sunk on Goodwin Sands.
To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and MARIA
And thinking of it makes me cry 'alas!'
I heard a child cry underneath a wall.
My reasonable part produces reason
For the following, sir?
In wholesome manner.
A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a
But sadly tell me who.
the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk
And dares not answer nay,--
And vice sometimes by action dignified.
Against my fire, and wast thou fain, poor father,
regal. What canst thou answer to my majesty for
Because, my lord, we would have had you heard
Of nothing so much as that I am not like Timon.
All my smooth body.
He will repent the breadth of his great voyage,
Marry, hang thee, brock!
furred with fox and lamb-skins too, to signify, that
More than my all is nothing: nor my prayers
Some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain.
And will awake him from his melancholy.
And would so, had it been a carbuncle
Flourish
Paris your brother, and Deiphobus,
The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day:
And not in me: I am myself alone.
When I do stare, see how the subject quakes.
Hath in her more destruction than thy sword,
apparel them all in one livery, that they may agree
To tell us whether they will come or no!
ACT I
last company: I am very glad to see you: even a
Sit, worthy friends: my lord is often thus,
my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
If it prove so, I will be gone the sooner.
Exeunt
Collars of SS.
Thou art deceived: 'tis not thy southern power,
Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get
If thou be there, sweet brother, take my hand.
And Phibbus' car
Unmuffles CLAUDIO
be followed: after them, and take a more dilated farewell.
What colour are your eyebrows?
I care not what, so it be wholesome food.
your gown,
And prays that you will hie you home to dinner.
Vex not yourself, nor strive not with your breath,
Done to me, undeserving as I am,
With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come,
I have heard her reported to be a woman of an
And, whilst the babbling echo mocks the hounds,
So big, to hold so much, they lack retention
If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.
swallowed love with singing love, sometime through
Myself disposed to sleep.
It requires swift foot.
By'r lakin, a parlous fear.
And here comes Claudio's pardon.
I am debating of my present store,
But milk my ewes and weep.
A canopy most fatal, under which
fly from God: war is his beadle, war is vengeance,
As we have seen him in the Capitol,
Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
And with him pour we in our country's purge
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
Well, my lord, since you have given me leave to speak.
Which in a napkin being close convey'd
I'll not have it so.
But time hath rooted out my parentage,
O, let me stay, befall what may befall!
The wild sea of my conscience, I did steer
Lose not so noble a friend on vain suppose,
Or be ye not henceforth call'd my children.
Wanting the scythe, all uncorrected, rank,
Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away!
Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles' spear,
I have been begging sixteen years in court,
The Ladies make signs to CORIOLANUS
Hear me, queen:
A thousand raw tricks of these bragging Jacks,
shillings an ell. You owe money here besides, Sir
I cry you mercy. Here's Cassio hurt by villains.
as had as lieve hear the devil as a drum, such as
Silence that dreadful bell: it frights the isle
On some odd time of his infirmity,
No, dark shall be my light and night my day,
Why, by the verities on thee made good,
To offer it the show of violence,
To die, even when they to perfection grow!
SONG
He hath ribbons of an the colours i' the rainbow,
Between them they will kill the conjurer.
The swiftest harts have posted you by land,
Hence will I drag thee headlong by the heels
Hector! the gods forbid!
Now, master Brook, you come to know what hath passed
as the first of May doth the last of December. But I
How often he had met you, sword to sword,
Attend us through the city.
Exit BIANCA
Or show the glory of our art?
O, grief hath changed me since you saw me last,
In praising her: I tell thee, lord of Greece,
A far more glorious star thy soul will make
This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
We will persuade him, be it possible,
Be't so: declare thine office.
Me, uncle?
No, my good lord, Diana.
The time seems long, their blood
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry,
No foot shall stir.
That life is better life, past fearing death,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Thou art too slow to do thy master's bidding,
Yea, sir, we hope.
He's gentle and not fearful.
But mine shall be a comfort to your age.
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
O, pardon me, Signior Gremio, I would fain be doing.
Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.
You shall not choose but drink before you go:
I am very loath to be your idol, sir,
ANTIPHOLUS
but friends,
Lives he?
Lord, how wise you are!
button, a duellist, a duellist, a gentleman of the
Unless, by not so doing, our good city
Is he whipp'd?
The sea's a thief, whose liquid surge resolves
In such a night
sheep-shearing.
Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers.
So much the more
Warwick and Clarence give me both your hands:
The bishop and the Duke of Gloucester's men,
Come, my sweet wife, my dearest mother, and
Re-enter BARDOLPH, running
The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands:
the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
afternoon Barnardine: for my better satisfaction,
Within whose circuit is Elysium
Should fall as Jacob's hire, the ewes, being rank,
Why we ascribe it to him, yet all his virtues,
His highness yet doth speak, and holds belief
What was thy mother's name? tell me but that,
sworn upon't she never shrouded any but lazars.
company to Venice, that swear he cannot choose but break.
Peter!
The father of this seeming lady and
Marry, amen!
Where's Captain Margaret, to fence you now?
Can lift your blood up with persuasion.
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
Are stuck upon thee: volumes of report
'Tis he. God and Saint Stephen give you good den:
Too heavy for a man that hopes for heaven!
If you be hired for meed, go back again,
Ay, dread queen.
At least from fair five hundred pound a year:
Thou hast a cruel nature and a bloody.
And breathe short-winded accents of new broils
Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help.
Well, then, that's the humour of't.
I have sat too long.
And go along with him!
To inlay heaven with stars.
To seem despiteful and ungentle to you:
And yet take this again, and yet I thank you,
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
For thy solicitor shall rather die
'Tis old, but true, Still swine eat all the draff.
And, when I had it, drew myself apart
Would sing her song and dance her turn, now here,
Upon your never-withering banks of flowers:
And yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch,
O husband, hear me! ay, alack, how new
And drive the English forth the bounds of France.
Uncle, farewell: and, cousin too, adieu:
Being a Volsce, be that I am. Condition!
The enemy of all your graces lives:
Celestial as thou art, O, pardon, love, this wrong,
'Besides, you waste the treasure of your time with
[To BERTRAM]  These things shall be done, sir.
the athversary, you may discuss unto the duke, look
drink in Illyria: he's a coward and a coystrill
How should I your true love know
Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,
Flourish. Exeunt
He named Sebastian: I my brother know
As wit and fortune will.
And take unmingled that same drop again,
Faith, unless you play the honest Troyan, the poor
of our way, I say.
Come, what talk you
Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
Not pay thee.
And Dick the shepherd blows his nail
That are your prisoners,--
JULIET wakes
Cross-gartered!
Cries out upon the name of Salisbury!
Shall I dash out. Go, take it to the fire,
I thank my liege, that in regard of me
I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it
Do you call, sir?
bold-beating oaths, under the shelter of your
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay,
The daring'st counsel which I had to doubt,
Read the indictment.
By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale,
Within this half hour will he be asleep:
If ever you prove false one to another, since I have
He sends ye not to murder me for this
Like vassalage at unawares encountering
O valiant cousin! worthy gentleman!
In whom the tide rested, were suppress'd.
For from my heart thine image ne'er shall go,
Bleeding to Rome, bearing his valiant sons
Nay, pray you, lead the way.
never drunk wine afore will go near to remove his
judgment and reason.
Well in her person I say I will not have you.
Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,
most mighty for thy place and sway,
I charge thee waft me safely cross the Channel.
Unveiling
King Henry the Fifth, too famous to live long!
overlooking. I have those hopes of her good that
Alarum. Exeunt
I promise, I am afraid to hear you tell it.
I see no reason but supposed Lucentio
That I did suit me all points like a man?
Fell slaughter on their souls. Heaven rest them now!
With an importing visage, and she told me,
Rememberest thou any that have died on't?
Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears
For well we know, no hand of blood and bone
Your answer, sir.
But in your daughter's womb I bury them:
Without a tongue, using conceit alone,
Had our great palace the capacity
As it may lose some colour.
And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,
already in the field.
I must, where is no remedy.
dearer love.
Why, horns, which such as you are fain to be
Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
To prison, eyes, ne'er look on liberty!
They shall have my horses, but I'll make them pay,
Here is her picture: let me see, I think,
No if thou dost say 'no' to my demand.
Stir with the lark to-morrow, gentle Norfolk.
More than quick words do move a woman's mind.
His ransom there is none but I shall pay:
The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more:
Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.
Here is the cate-log of her condition.
Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
Sweet Hero! now thy image doth appear
Thou play'dst most foully for't: yet it was said
A fever with the absence of her son,
I'll be no longer guilty of this sin, this sanguine
My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue
Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends,
Syenna's brother.
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
The County Paris hath set up his rest,
But that he swore to take, our lives? The law
Enter JAQUES
If that be true, I shall see my boy again,
Wretches so quake: they kneel, they kiss the earth,
That she which marries you must marry me,
And in a vision full of majesty
Charms this report out.
That horse that I so carefully have dress'd!
And then I'll speak a little.
are some brown, some black, some auburn, some bald,
Must feel war's blow, who spares not innocence:
A man so breathed, that certain he would fight, yea
Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him.
What is your will?
Come hither, friend: where is the king my master?
when he would have walked ten mile a-foot to see a
Re-enter HELICANUS, LYSIMACHUS, and MARINA
Place you that side, I'll take the charge of this:
Nay, but say true, does it work upon him?
When workmen strive to do better than well,
Why, my lord?
Mort du vinaigre! is not this Helen?
high-proof melancholy and would fain have it beaten
Which busy care draws in the brains of men,
Shall never see so much, nor live so long.
eat three: if thou wert the fox, the lion would
christened.
Come, Hector, come, go back:
He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself
SCENE II. The same. A room in the palace.
Come, come, let's see him out at gates, come.
The violets, cowslips, and the primroses,
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
Signior, hang! base muleters of France!
Dost thou hear, Hal? thou knowest in the state of
The specialty of rule hath been neglected:
Here is a coil with protestation!
I ratify this my rich gift. O Ferdinand,
When thou wakest, let love forbid
To three thousand dolours a year.
Which pleasure fits an husband, not a father,
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
Or lambs pursued by hunger-starved wolves.
Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing.
O, say thou for her, who hath done this deed?
I will none of your money.
As that which makes it.
'Tis most like he will.
Speak softly, yonder, as I think, he walks.
Though, I confess, much like the character
I am sure I saw her wear it.
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO in his own habit, and FRIAR PETER
A se'nnight's speed. Great Jove, Othello guard,
SCENE III. A road near the Shepherd's cottage.
To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed.
May to your wishes pleasure bring
To do no contrived murder: I lack iniquity
Stealing her soul with many vows of faith
Thy lewd, pestiferous and dissentious pranks,
ACT III
But I and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me,
I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth.
Hector, Deiphobus, Helenus, Antenor, and all the
Bearing the badge of faith, to prove them true?
him.
If she do frown, 'tis not in hate of you,
mean: superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but
You will be shamed for ever.
Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle,
We sympathize: Jove, let AEneas live,
did thy master part with Madam Julia?
She better would have fitted me or Clarence:
SCENE III. A lonely part of the forest.
Hold up thy head, vile Scot, or thou art like
Shall I go win my daughter to thy will?
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
Losing his verdure even in the prime
to the history of lust and foul thoughts. They met
A man of such a feeble temper should
And leave you naked.
Exit EUPHRONIUS
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog!
God knows thou art a collop of my flesh,
I know the hand: in faith, 'tis a fair hand,
I was about to say--enjoy your--But
The flat transgression of a schoolboy, who, being
a Cressida to this Troilus.
And clamour moisten'd: then away she started
This news is mortal to the queen: look down
And break it with a deep-divorcing vow?
safe: and you must suffer him to take no delight
The subject will deserve it. Such as give
To LONGAVILLE
I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a
Are of consent and sufferance in this.
Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
Badly, I fear. How fares your majesty?
Re-enter SEYTON
Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
Than common sleep of all these five the sense.
And sword and shield,
Exit
may easily put it off at court: he that cannot make
The night has been unruly: where we lay,
Which is from my remembrance! Please you, farther.
Came crying 'mongst his foes,
I will write.
Ducks to the golden fool: all is oblique,
clog at his heels: if I thought it were a piece of
Is this face Hero's? are our eyes our own?
So the were bleeding-new, my lord, there's no meat
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
But honour thee, and will do till I die:
Wont, through a secret grate of iron bars
Sleeping or waking? mad or well-advised?
My Lord, I have consider'd in my mind
What is my ransom, master? let me know.
To leave you in your madness, 'twere my sin:
But, sure, I fear, we shall ne'er win him to it.
And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
Doth but usurp the sacred name of knight,
O Harry's wife, triumph not in my woes!
To EDGAR
By the sweet power of music: therefore the poet
That he did buffet thee, and, in his blows,
merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea, the
To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
To keep those many many bodies safe
Of bell and burial.
SCENE IV. The same. A tent.
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it:
To press before thy father to a grave?
Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
My friends,--
you make grand preparation for a duke de Jamany: by
Eight thousand and four hundred, of the which,
I'll about it this evening: and I will presently
They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves
Lay on my bed my wedding sheets: remember,
This is the very ecstasy of love,
Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
suspicious,
Alas, sir, we did it for pure need.
As full of peril and adventurous spirit
I find him a fit fellow.
With wax I brought away, whose soft impression
For he is nothing but a mighty lord.
I have a brother is condemn'd to die:
Into the clustering battle of the French,
Matters of needful value. We shall write to you,
Since I must lose the use of all deceit?
To loves mistook, and so be mock'd withal
You something know, yet I believe there comes
That means to be of note, begins betimes.
I confess the cape.
If she'ld do the deed of darkness, thou wouldst say.
Upon the head of this forgetful man
Ourselves to be the slaves of chance and flies
Beseech you, sir, be merry, you have cause,
That want their leader, scatter up and down
Myself no joy in nought but that thou livest.
With truant vows to her own lips he loves,
Yet none does know, but you, how she came dead,
But not deliver'd. O, hear me breathe my life
He cried almost to roaring, and he wept
Nay, stay not to expostulate, make speed,
And so hath Clifton: I'll to Clifton straight.
Well, get thee gone, farewell.
Cunning in dumbness, from my weakness draws
The princess of this country, and the air on't
Exeunt. Flourish
Why does my blood thus muster to my heart,
And if I did but stir out of my bed,
Yet so much is my poverty of spirit,
Exeunt
Indeed we fear'd his sickness was past cure.
Thank you, good Pompey, and, in requital of your
Ours of true zeal and deep integrity.
and a good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a
Which 'tis not fit you know, I not acquaint
As it hath much prevail'd on your condition,
Nor for yours neither. You've ungently, Brutus,
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:
years? Wherein is he good, but to taste sack and
Shame serves thy life and doth thy death attend.
So many blows upon this face of mine,
Thy bed, lust-stain'd, shall with lust's blood be spotted.
No, no, he'll [        ]
On the opposer.
A spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds,
And his opposite, the youth, bears in his visage no
In which so many smiling Romans bathed,
God and your arms be praised, victorious friends,
Between our Ilium and where she resides,
And Caesar shall go forth.
talk is most tolerable and not to be endured.
thy friend. Come, thou canst not hide it.
Many a battle have I won in France,
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
What is your crest? a coxcomb?
Exit Lord
have it to buy gingerbread: hold, there is the very
Nor her, nor thee, nor any of thy stock:
flattery, not out of my promise.
narrow for your mind.
And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night.
Where we decreed to bury Bassianus.
Till we have done at sea. Do not exceed
Subject his coronet to his crown and bend
And would in action glorious I had lost
the beggarly thanks. Come, sing, and you that will
So criminal and in such capital kind,
enough to make such knaveries yours.
As little skill to fear as I have purpose
Even or odd, of all days in the year,
disgrace Hero before the whole assembly. and not marry her.
To which I thus subscribe: Sir Valentine,
Eight score eight hours? and lovers' absent hours,
SCENE II. Southampton. A council-chamber.
when thou wilt, and thou shalt have it.
I know him well: you are very welcome, sir,
prisoner the very debt of your calling. I have
Omission to do what is necessary
It is thy business that I go about,
Great Mars, I put myself into thy file:
shall be with her between ten and eleven, for at
That's not the tune.
There ye shall meet about this weighty business.
There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
Exit
Which he, sir?
Cunning in music and the mathematics,
Ere I could make thee open thy white hand
The issue of the exploit. Go, Hercules!
Fetch hither the swain: he must carry me a letter.
Their music frightful as the serpent's hiss,
'Tis true, for you are over boots in love,
terms: that is the humour of it.
I do perceive it hath offended you:
This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl
With the sweet silent hours of marriage joys
To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.'
Whose dust is both alike. I am very sick.
Thou teachest me, O valiant Eros, what
Wherein this trunk was framed, and in her hand
And I am all forgotten.
I am not worth this coil that's made for me.
[To SIR NATHANIEL]  O, sir, you have overthrown
I have thought upon it, it shall be so. Away, burn
Or else you use not. You look pale and gaze
I'll be revenged on the whole pack of you.
Ay, that he razed.
forbid I should be so bold to press to heaven in my
Owe and succeed thy weakness.
with a sad brow? or do you play the flouting Jack,
Could have persuaded me: now I dare not say
He bears him like a portly gentleman,
For shame, put up.
Of English Henry, shall this night appear
at midnight? Fie, fie! he'll never come.
Where shall we meet i' the morning?
To SOMERSET
Change you, madam?
him, though removed fifty times, shall all come
Put your grace in your pocket, sir, for this once,
Of our flesh, few are angels: out of which frailty
If it be proved! you see it is apparent.
I saw him once, he was a goodly king.
Alas, sweet aunt, I know not what you mean.
You and your ways, whose wraths to guard you from--
I will devise a death as cruel for thee
report you.
in this wise company? How dost thou, Apemantus?
Exeunt
This louring tempest of your home-bred hate,
[Aside to MISTRESS PAGE]  Trust me, I thought on her:
A strange fellow here
Good angels keep it from us!
This praise doth nourish agues. Let them come:
Exeunt PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
And his pond fish'd by his next neighbour, by
Some heavy business hath my lord in hand,
Enter COUNTESS, Steward, and Clown
I know't too well.
Marry, thou dost wrong me, thou dissembler, thou:--
God be wi' you! I have done.
And at the time of my departure thence
Fare you well: pray heaven I be deceived in you!
He's fat, and scant of breath.
Exeunt HERO and URSULA
Between the king and you, and to deliver,
How comes this gentle concord in the world,
How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.
the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject
Andronicus, I do not flatter thee,
Of any penny tribute paid. Our countrymen
I met in travel toward his warlike father!
The low Posthumus slanders so her judgment
Unto the king be by, and then his state
Somewhat too early for new-married ladies.
And do a deed that fortune never did,
Who bids thee call? I do not bid thee call.
I will satisfy you, if ever I satisfied man, and you
And yet 'not proud,' mistress minion, you,
That has he knows not what. Nature, what things there are
thinking? Sure, they sleep, he hath no use of them.
As enemy to the people and his country:
O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
[Starting up]  No assure you, the wall is down that
I am none, by this good light.
The perdition of th' athversary hath been very
Exeunt
Thou goest to Coventry, there to behold
Of England's coat one half is cut away.
Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have
How full of valour did he bear himself
It shall become thee well to act my woes,
The men that gave their country liberty.
The region of my heart: be Kent unmannerly,
will seek satisfaction of you.
Is this the Talbot, so much fear'd abroad
You fillip me o' the head.
How much she loves me: O, the kindest Kate!
Dies
But few,
And I dare well maintain it with my life,
And know the office that belongs to such.
Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
Why then my taxing like a wild-goose flies,
day does night, it's spritely, waking, audible, and
Sink in the ground? I thought it would have mounted.
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
To sport would be as tedious as to work,
Were they that murdered our emperor's brother,
till you may do it without controlment. You have of
For not bestowing on him, at his asking,
And the Phoenicians go a-ducking, we
May show her duty and make known her love?'
And leave me but the bran.' What say you to't?
There is a change upon you.
Your scruple to the voice of Christendom:
Why think you so?
Are of the adder. Which of them shall I take?
Then, at my suit, look graciously on him,
Hath given them heart and courage to proceed:
Then would to God that I had never seen't!
into amazement and admiration.
to care for nothing, sir, I would it would make you invisible.
So please your majesty, I would I could
I pray thee, chide not, she whom I love now
To MARK ANTONY
And let my woes frown on the upper hand.
To-morrow, Caesar,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
Shylock is my name.
The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell,
And his affairs come to me on the wind.
Any of these ways are yet better than this,
No noise, but silence and eternal sleep:
You do mistake me, sir.
Though most dishonestly he doth deny it.
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, QUEEN ELIZABETH,  CLARENCE, GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, a Nurse with the young Prince, and Attendants
And every lovely organ of her life
Ay, and a shrewd unhappy gallows too.
As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?
My lord, when last I went to visit her,
Of gallant warriors, noble gentlemen.
When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones:
You wronged yourself to write in such a case.
Now, by the death of Him that died for all,
Submit thee, boy.
horribly in love with her. I may chance have some
As dissolute as desperate, yet through both
That beasts shall tremble at thy din.
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
May a free face put on, derive a liberty
Makes me the bolder to salute my king
His present reconciliation take,
Do you with cheeks abash'd behold our works,
Than to be butcher of an innocent child.
And, were they but attired in grave weeds,
Come, my dear love,
What will become of this? As I am man,
Follow, I pray you.
Nor would we deign him burial of his men
So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
That Hubert, for the wealth of all the world,
From the dead blow of it. And you, enchantment.--
I shall cut out your tongue.
Much about cock-shut time, from troop to troop
Fie, Joan, that thou wilt be so obstacle!
You see how easily she may be surprised:
From your good queen.
And many miles, the princess bids you tell
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone,
Dealing with witches and with conjurers:
Portia is Brutus' harlot, not his wife.
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
when thou gavest thy golden one away. If I speak
True, they are so:
Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love
That we may wake the king: he hath slept long.
Indeed his king, to be engaged in Wales,
Away, and talk not, trouble us no more.
Not so, my lord, I am too much i' the sun.
As kill a king!
my troth, there's one meaning well suited.
This body, like to them, to what I must,
Why, but there's many a man hath more hair than wit.
Come, madam, you must straight to Westminster,
That last is true, the sweeter rest was mine.
And thou by some incensed god sent hither
ACT V
Ratcliff, thyself, or Catesby, where is he?
Take him away: he knows I know him well.
Exeunt
Achilles shall have word of this intent,
Besides, his cote, his flocks and bounds of feed
But stay'd and made the western welkin blush,
No, so God help me, they spake not a word,
will predominate over the peasant, and thou shalt
Exit LUCIUS
Dare you presume to harbour wanton lines?
But when your carters or your waiting-vassals
Having fully dined before.
With blood of thine already.
The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.
would yield us but the superfluity, while it were
For law is strict, and war is nothing more.
What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
not speak of without he say 'Sir-reverence.' I have
I would keep from thee. For your sake, jewel,
she make her love known, and she will die, if he woo
Thou being a goddess, I forswore not thee:
Sir, you and I must part, but that's not it:
Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such
Would not be purged, she sent you word she was dead,
have almost embossed him, you shall see his fall
Proceed:
More like a king, more kingly in my thoughts:
Would give preceptial medicine to rage,
that cons state without book and utters it by great
Both merits poised, each weighs nor less nor more,
Thou shalt know her, fellow, by the rest that have no heads.
And the new deputy now for the duke--
An host of tongues, but let ill tidings tell
Preserve the king.
Shunn'd my abhorr'd society, but then, finding
Exeunt all but CARDINAL WOLSEY
Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach
And bind the boy which you shall find with me
That paragon, thy daughter,--
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
Me seemeth good, that, with some little train,
Weapons! arms! What 's the matter here?
But now two mirrors of his princely semblance
Drawn by report, adventurous by desire,
I from my mistress come to you in post,
Doth turn oh! oh! to ha! ha! he!
How now, what news with you?
speaker is but a prater, a rhyme is but a ballad. A
The ladies did change favours: and then we,
Consider, lords, he is the next of blood,
A soldier to thy purpose.
That solder'st close impossibilities,
ACT III
A deed of slander with thy fatal hand
Good morrow, Brutus, do we trouble you?
of purses than giving direction doth from labouring,
And therefore homeward did they bend their course.
How could he see his way to seek out you?
O,'tis fair play.
Methinks my lord should be religious
A pattern to all princes living with her,
To make these doubts all even.
You justicers, that these our nether crimes
Free pardon to each man that has denied
And she respects me as her only son.
A vengeance on your crafty wither'd hide!
Let him that was the cause of this have power
For half a hundred years. Summon the town.
My life, my joy, my food, my all the world!
For they shall taste our comfort.
If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.
Shall we shog? the king will be gone from
five-score.
To the tender of our present.
I shall have my eight shillings I won of you at betting?
No, monster, not I.
To one or two of these!
With colours fairer painted their foul ends.
Exit
Not I, till Mutius' bones be buried.
That I am pretty.
If I could have remembered a gilt counterfeit, thou
Which he forswore most monstrously to have.
We cannot feel too little, hear too much.
To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield
I will swear by it that you love me, and I will make
He'ld lay the future open. You good gods,
If guilty dread have left thee so much strength
And so she shall, Lucentio shall make one,
thousand years I could stay no longer. Wherefore,
For in thy shoulder do I build my seat,
Since they do better thee in their command.
SCENE I. A churchyard.
Thinking upon his services, took from you
How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!
camest thou to be the siege of this moon-calf? can
To the Doctor
Be used more thankfully. In himself, 'tis much,
Lord Timon, hear me speak.
See me in talk with thee.
for I am sure I shall turn sonnet. Devise, wit,
But tell me whom thou seek'st.
'Tis time to fear when tyrants seem to kiss.
And scants us with a single famish'd kiss,
I saw no man use you a pleasure, if I had, my weapon
When severally we hear them rendered.
Sir, I propose not merely to myself
No, not for all the riches under heaven.
Now swallow down that lie. For Gloucester's death,
Why, didst thou not come from heaven?
than lack it where there is such abundance.
me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
Thy master is not there, who was indeed
should be lewdly given, he deceiveth me, for, Harry,
willingly, let him make a carbonado of me. I like
Alas, Iago, my lord hath so bewhored her.
Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet,
Fled to England!
I'll turn to sparks of fire.
You're fall'n into a princely hand, fear nothing:
But cozen'd and beguiled.
As time and our concernings shall importune,
Traffic confound thee, if the gods will not!
What! lack I credit?
In obstinate condolement is a course
Dost thou deny thy father, cursed drab?
See where she comes.
A better head her glorious body fits
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
But, they do square, that all their elves for fear
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears,
Hark! Hector's trumpet.
For the most worthiest fit! Give me your pardon.
Knocking within
In winter's cold and summer's parching heat,
Reverend appearer, no,
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
Upon your charter and your city's freedom.
But when my angry guardant stood alone,
unlawful solicitation, if not, assure yourself I
Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household, which
Vat is you sing? I do not like des toys. Pray you,
My business, sir, is to the king.
Seditious to his grace and to the state.
Enter HECTOR and ANDROMACHE
In troth, I think thou wouldst not.
And in that glorious supposition think
Because I knew the man, were slighted off.
For but a month ago I went from hence,
crave your assistance.
SCENE I. London. The Parliament-house.
to keep his name company!--
In Syracusa was I born, and wed
Unto the sovereign mercy of the king,
Ne'er shall this blood be wiped from thy point,
For it requires the royal debt it lent you.
I will report, so please you: these her women
Your royal father 's murder'd.
Why then, a ladder quaintly made of cords,
that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber, for,
This castle hath a pleasant seat, the air
two!
They retire
Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
ruinous disorders, follow us disquietly to our
Go where you will, the king shall be commanded,
Kneels
afford her, that were she other than she is, she
What say you to't?
And make a quagmire of your mingled brains.
'Tis for the followers fortune widens them,
When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
Whereto we see in all things nature tends--
A boar-spear in my hand, and--in my heart
Your first is dead, or 'twere as good he were,
thou lookest cheerly, and I'll be with thee quickly.
Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just,
They found the bed untreasured of their mistress.
If you are bound to us or no. What say you?
Which for Antenor we deliver you:
Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground,
'Tis my fault, Master Page: I suffer for it.
He is of a very melancholy disposition.
That fellow is a fellow of much licence: let him be
Exeunt APEMANTUS and Fool
My horse, my ox, my ass, my any thing,
Break off the parley, for scarce I can refrain
there, or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
And after shipwreck driven upon this shore.
husband is this morning gone a-birding: I have
[Aside to GREGORY]  Is the law of our side, if I say
What torment I did find thee in, thy groans
By my life, I do, which I tender dearly, though I
Will ye, like soldiers, come and fight it out?
It nips me unto listening, and thick slumber
I know him not, but I have heard of him,
me.
She will sing any man at first sight.
I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
Why, thou picture of what thou seemest, and idol
I tremble stiff with fear: but if there be
For I dare so far free him--made him fear'd,
Lay comforts to your bosom, and bestow
Report be an honest woman of her word.
Such bold hostility, teaching his duteous land
I think that one of them is hereabout,
If at home, sir,
They must be bound and laid in some dark room.
Fie, sirrah! a bawd, a wicked bawd!
A noble life before a long, and wish
Thus far, and so farewell.
How now, Catesby, what says your lord?
So much his friend, ay, his unfeigned friend,
Poins! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a
Here is your servant. How now, sir! What news?
I would not be cured, youth.
She dreamt to-night she saw my statua,
Against the irregular and wild Glendower,
Cut short all intermission, front to front
You are not worth the dust which the rude wind
To envelop and contain celestial spirits.
But, I beseech you, what's become of Katharine,
William Lord Hastings had pronounced your part,--
find the thief, and no satisfaction, no revenge:
dismount thy tuck, be yare in thy preparation, for
And as my duty springs, so perish they
reason it thus and thus, yet nature finds itself
Or else come after: I'll away before.
On Wednesday next, Harry, you shall set forward,
Take heed, have open eye, for thieves do foot by night:
Ay, but he'll have but a year in all these ducats:
that I dropped to betray him: he does smile his
I must indeed, and therefore came I hither.
Here, my lord, in readiness.
With shouts and clamours.
Parle without, and answer within. Then a flourish.  Enter on the walls, KING RICHARD II, the BISHOP OF  CARLISLE, DUKE OF AUMERLE, SIR STEPHEN SCROOP, and EARL OF SALISBURY
Why sweat they under burthens? let their beds
Hath made a shameful conquest of itself.
I will cap that proverb with 'There is flattery in friendship.'
I do detest false perjured Proteus.
From the two parties, forsooth.
And grumbling York: and not the least of these
think my master is a kind of a knave: but that's
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
Where death's approach is seen so terrible!
And be you silent and attentive too,
Striking too short at Greeks, his antique sword,
And something from the palace, always thought
let no man take care for himself, for all is
Enter BUCKINGHAM, DERBY, HASTINGS, the BISHOP OF  ELY, RATCLIFF, LOVEL, with others, and take their seats at a table
take dust, like Mistress Mall's picture? why dost
The violent carriage of it
Prosper it with thee! Go thou farther off,
Shall we be sunder'd? shall we part, sweet girl?
seems to tie their friendship together will be the
thou a bear, thou wouldst be killed by the horse:
You say he is so fell.
Dies
As thou and I, who, as thou know'st, are dear
Fetch me this herb, and be thou here again
Your salt tears' head: now to all sense 'tis gross
As ever in ambitious strength I did
Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
Where that and other specialties are bound:
Out, dunghill!
answer to what I shall ask you out of a note.
There's rosemary, that's for remembrance, pray,
I am worse than e'er I was.
revel and applause, transform ourselves into beasts!
But if you be afeard to hear the worst,
To keep by policy what Henry got?
I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold
that he is?
And buy it with your gold right suddenly.
May be put from her by society:
And breed a kind of question in our cause,
And by the happy hollow of a tree
Come, gentlemen, we sit too long on trifles,
instance and argument to commend themselves: I
content to say it was for his country he did it to
To put you to't. But come, our dance, I pray:
Tam lentus audis scelera? tam lentus vides?
That is the butt-end of a mother's blessing:
Exeter, so will I.
Base Phrygian Turk!
I mean, your voice,--for crowning of the king.
Making the mother, wife and child to see
I thank them, and would send them back the plague,
So say I	methinks you are sadder.
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
I am afraid, and yet I'll venture it.
And as imagination bodies forth
Beggar the estimation which you prized
A second Daniel, a Daniel, Jew!
To me or my swift passage, that I slide
A good blunt fellow. Why, being younger born,
proud of heart, to ride on a bay trotting-horse over
You should not blemish it, if I stood by:
Without annoying me: and there were drawn
If this were played upon a stage now, I could
Exeunt
Urged by the commons? Doth his majesty
Enter a Servant
If such a one be fit to govern, speak:
I humbly pray them to admit the excuse
Commanded of me those most poisonous compounds,
Thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords
Which the brain makes of fumes: our very eyes
So much of bad already hath possess'd them.
And be thou he.
You will catch cold, and curse me.
This Helena, old Nedar's Helena:
Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
And turn again unto the warlike French.
I will be master of what is mine own:
And earns a place i' the story.
Thou art a scholar, speak to it, Horatio.
They draw and fight
Our worser genius can, shall never melt
Methinks I hear him now, his plausive words
Bore the commission of my place and person,
Prithee, see there! behold! look! lo!
Exit
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire,'
sing. Come, more, another stanzo: call you 'em stanzos?
A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
Why, God will send more, if the man will be
Exit
Without more overture.
What news, friar, of the duke?
Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's back
O, was she so? I must
I am solicited, not by a few,
As harbingers preceding still the fates
Exeunt
As fear may teach us out of late examples
Hail!
That meat was made for mouths, that the gods sent not
I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands
But yet, methinks, my father's execution
Sweet honey Greek, tempt me no more to folly.
O, banish me, my lord, but kill me not!
Most willingly,
enow before, e'en as many as could well live, one by
With all the effect of love.
Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
Re-enter EROS
Our praises are our wages: you may ride's
Was aptly fitted and naturally perform'd.
men would carry coals. They would have me as
Till when,--the which I hope shall ne'er be seen,--
'Twixt you and your poor brother.
Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men,
He is dead and gone, lady,
When these so noble benefits shall prove
Let AEsop fable in a winter's night,
For us, and for our tragedy,
A most unspotted lily shall she pass
Our contract celebrated.
Here in this city visiting the sick,
And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms
First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats
And writers say, as the most forward bud
My major vow lies here, this I'll obey.
Nay, heaven doth know.
O my fair warrior!
I hear their drums: let's set our men in order,
And to your shadow will I make true love.
Kent, on thy life, no more.
monstrous till his fellow fault came to match it.
Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing,
For no man, sir.
Faith, sir, a' has an English name, but his fisnomy
To a new-crowned monarch: such it is
To cheque their folly, passion's solemn tears.
By you relieved, would force me to my duty:
'Farewell, dear heart, since I must needs be gone.'
Hast here cut off my lord. To write and read
She seemingly obedient likewise hath
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste,
ass.
Crying on Hector. Ajax hath lost a friend
shall see wilful adultery and murder committed.
Above the moon: we must be burnt for you.
conclusions to be as kisses, if your four negatives
Good morrow, prince, good morrow, Claudio:
Lady, I will commend you to mine own heart.
Enter ERPINGHAM
What will you give us?
What plagues and what portents! what mutiny!
capacity and breeding, his employment between his
When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray!
Besides, her intercession chafed him so,
I'll make him send for Lucius his son,
Child Rowland to the dark tower came,
If ever I thy face by daylight see:
O cousin, thou art come to set mine eye:
To bear my lady's train, lest the base earth
No,'tis his kind of speech: he did not mock us.
'Tis not my speeches that you do mislike,
There is one goat for you.
O wonderful, when devils tell the truth!
I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
[Aside]  A' must needs, for beggary is valiant.
And waked half dead with nothing. Worthy Marcius,
Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs:
In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
Methinks, I see him now--
To who? to thee? What art thou? Have not I
Tis now the very witching time of night,
the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires, and
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
Then mark the inducement. Thus it came, give heed to't:
Upon his palm!--How now, you wanton calf!
Here's a change indeed!
I'll provide you a chain, and I'll do what I can to
thy mind is a very opal. I would have men of such
To you Duke Humphrey must unload his grief,
Although not valued to the money's worth.
To your notorious shame, I doubt it not.
O, let me speak!
Will take the crown. The sum of this,
Then let me stay, and, father, do you fly:
No, a fair lord calf.
The heavens give safety to your purposes!
Cham's beard, do you any embassage to the Pigmies,
Enter Pyramus
wasp's nest, then stand till he be three quarters
More than in women commonly is seen,
O thou that dost inhabit in my breast,
I wish it might, for now I am your fool.
More noble blows than ever thou wise words,
His rougher accents for malicious sounds,
What wouldst do then, Apemantus?
He shall unbolt the gates.
Or she that bore you was no queen, and you
This becomes the great.
Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile.
No.
If all else fail, myself have power to die.
To kiss her burial. Should I go to church
hath confessed himself to Morgan, whom he supposes
With juice of balm and every precious flower:
They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke,
Alack, in me what strange effect
Be by, good madam, when we do awake him,
All which we pine for now: and this report
Choose your own company, and command what cost
And stands upon the honour of his birth,
I warrant your honour.
And give assurance to Baptista Minola,
By you being pardon'd, we commit no crime
I know thou dost, and, sweet Revenge, farewell.
you enough, and when you have seen more and heard
Gentlewoman, good day! I pray you, be my mean
ACT I
Grief fills the room up of my absent child,
Exeunt
I guess their tenor.
Begin again
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
If Caesar carelessly but nod on him.
From him, and thus he greets your majesty.
Even with the same austerity and garb
A man may weep upon his wedding-day.
But the two rings.
Where I may wallow in the lily-beds
You should have fear'd false times when you did feast:
That never touch well welcome to thy hand,
To BRABANTIO
And when my knightly stomach is sufficed,
O heavens! O heavens!
Please you, my lord, there are certain
of the prince's subjects.
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
crowns of the king carrying my head to him: but
Such as we see when men restrain their breath
thy shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love,
Is all your strict preciseness come to this?
'Cucullus non facit monachum:' honest in nothing
My uncle is return'd:
thought she was a woman and was turned into a cold
Exit
What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet?
Their proper selves.
His comforts thrive, his trials well are spent.
To follow still the changes of the moon
Go, sound thy trumpet in the market-place,
Thy grandam loves thee, and thy uncle will
I to buy for our sheep-shearing feast? Three pound
Your mariners are muleters, reapers, people
If he were seated as King Edward is.
If e'er this coffin drive a-land,
Two yards, and more.
Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle:
Corrupted honest men! Dispatch.--Enobarbus!
I will, my lord.
And, in thy reverence and thy chair-days, thus
Temperance was a delicate wench.
So let us still continue peace and love.
Was I betroth'd ere I saw Hermia:
mounsieur, bring me the honey-bag. Do not fret
to-morrow, or I am deceived by him that in such
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
When ye were so indeed.
That dare leave two together, fare you well.
That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here,
I am the man: if it be so, as 'tis,
Taxation!
Prays, and destroys the prayer, no midway
sing a note, sometime through the throat, as if you
Up with my tent there! here will I lie tonight,
I'll to the queen: please you,
belongs to't. Ask me if I am a courtier: it shall
So good a lady that no tongue could ever
Ay, what's o'clock?
I found him under a tree, like a dropped acorn.
Pierce into that, but I can see his pride
It cannot be.
Judas Maccabaeus clipt is plain Judas.
Now he importunes him
Exit
By cutting off your heads: thus hath he sworn
for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
This accident is not unlike my dream:
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
Desires your visitation, and to be
Well,
O Clitus!
the very description of their meeting-place, and
A virgin and his servant, say to him.
Have patience, madam: there's no doubt his majesty
So I were not his sister. Can't no other,
But, for your conscience?
It draws toward supper in conclusion so.
Since it is bankrupt of his majesty.
And how quote you my folly?
Find we a time for frighted peace to pant,
wants. I pray you, fail me not.
My surname, Coriolanus: the painful service,
Thou sayest true: 'tis not our bringing up of poor
That cause, fair nephew, that imprison'd me
Then she's a merry Greek indeed.
There is an art which in their piedness shares
Alcibiades. Go, thou wast born a bastard, and thou't
Be suffer'd to come near him.
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
to dinner,' there's a double meaning in that 'I took
Of our great action: therefore shall he die,
More health and happiness betide my liege
Flourish
Draw near them then in being merciful:
One of the greatest in the Christian world
ACT III
Richer than doing nothing for a bauble,
What, shall I come? the hour?
If thou again say 'Yes.'
If I might beseech you, gentlemen, to repair some
Against the mind, the which he pricks and wounds
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years,
And crowns for convoy put into his purse:
I would his troubles likewise were expired,
CAIUS MARCIUS CORIOLANUS! Bear
What, what?
Nay, if you have not, to it again,
Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
No, it is 'lapis:' I pray you, remember in your prain.
Re-enter PUCK, and BOTTOM with an ass's head
We are the queen's abjects, and must obey.
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
Go, ye giddy goose.
And out of you she sees herself more proper
Of laughing with a sigh?--a note infallible
O, upon my knee,
To Owen Glendower: and, dear coz, to you
Than breath or pen can give expressure to:
With three or four loggerheads amongst three or four
Exit
High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.
Vows are but breath, and breath a vapour is:
That handkerchief
As I descended?
his new doublet before Easter? with another, for
Stop up the access and passage to remorse,
Sir, I would speak with you.
do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
Of your own state take care: this dream of mine,--
Hap what hap may, I'll roundly go about her:
He, doing so, put forth to seas,
With fearful bravery, thinking by this face
Have more than merited. All friends shall taste
Why, then my cousin Margaret and Ursula
Than that of thought. Suppose that you have seen
I Know her women are about her: what
Call them again, my lord, and accept their suit.
With a most false effect, and I the truer,
She hath been then more fear'd than harm'd, my liege,
part. Thine, in the dearest design of industry,
Sir, I am made
Thus both are gone with conscience and remorse,
You know since Pentecost the sum is due,
Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here.
We put fresh garments on him.
For shame, my lord of Winchester, relent!
At sea in childbed died she, but brought forth
Leaving them but the shales and husks of men.
court in the morning. That same mad fellow of the
Was he not here?
Look to the lady:
walk with you, and so following, but I will not eat
Upon a pleasing treaty, and have hearts
Do then: but I'll not hear.
And Dromio, my man, did bring them me.
Where we have lived, and so extort from's that
Of all these ears,--for where I am robb'd and bound,
Enter ALBANY
We met him thitherward, for thence we came,
'Tis Aufidius,
Enter AEMILIUS
Who Pyramus presented, in their sport
As he is subtle, and as prone to mischief
And so I love and honour thee and thine,
Upon this spotted and inconstant man.
To the health of our general!
His hand to wield a sceptre, and himself
If I do not, damn me.
knight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer.
But let her rest in her unrest awhile.
But as the unthought-on accident is guilty
My liege!
the sea was my sister drowned.
My careless father fondly gave away'?
Helen, to you our minds we will unfold:
Hail sir!
Even to the point of envy, if 'twere made
Which the most precious square of sense possesses,
Mistress, it is: sweet lady, entertain him
Your reason?
Stop close their mouths, let them not speak a word.
Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio.
O Warwick, Warwick! that Plantagenet,
Envenom him with words, or get thee gone
To which is fixed, as an aim or butt,
Nothing becomes him ill that he would well.
And--how we know not--all clapp'd under hatches,
very fear.
If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue
To murder, murder our solemnity?
That here and there his fury had committed.
And keeps the oath which by that god he swears,
Beshrew me, the knight's in admirable fooling.
And fame in time to come canonize us,
[Reads]  'To the unknown beloved, this, and my good
Thy burden at the sea, and call'd Marina
And with a sudden vigour doth posset
Ay, who doubts that? a will! a wicked will:
With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath,
Than fly to others that we know not of?
And then?
Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
Which make such wanton gambols with the wind,
Despite of mine own nature. Quickly send,
[Aside]  I think I shall drink in pipe wine first
with them:'
Say to Ventidius I would speak with him:
Which is it, girl, of these? Open them, boy.
Enter TITUS, MARCUS, LAVINIA and Young LUCIUS, a boy
Hath held his current and defiled himself!
Who's that, I pray thee?
I prithee, sweet wag, when thou art king, as, God
Right well, dear madam. By your patience,
No, his mouth is stopp'd,
none of you hates them--that between you and the
That hast this fortune on me? If thou'rt noble,
For Cassius is aweary of the world,
Which, God he knows, I saw not: for the which
To Roger Earl of March, who was the son
To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die,
Did I let pass the abuse done to my niece?
Orpheus with his lute made trees,
He shall be happy that can find him, if
That raught at mountains with outstretched arms,
Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires,
I am sorry
And welcome, Somerset: I hold it cowardice
Was ever king so grieved for subjects' woe?
Unless it be to come before their time,
No, faith, young Troilus, doff thy harness, youth,
No, nor it is not meet he should. For, though I
We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.
So much uncurbable, her garboils, Caesar
With an aspect more favourable. Good my lords,
No more, sweet Hamlet!
His hour of speech a minute, he, my lady,
I'll tell thee what befell me on a day
it he is to sojourn with you? How creeps
In such a parley should I answer thee.
Perpend my words, O Signieur Dew, and mark,
sights: the men are not yet cold under water, nor
And then 'twas fresh in murmur,--as, you know,
Tyrannical power: if he evade us there,
Avaunt, thou dreadful minister of hell!
which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.
There is a prone and speechless dialect,
Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read--
They walk, and speak not
O Helicanus, strike me, honour'd sir,
O, behold,
The ancient Roman honour more appears
Almost to bursting, and the big round tears
His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare,
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
Either consent to pay this sum for me
That makes amends for her sour breath.
Sleep in their graves.
Exit
ANTIPHOLUS
O, thus I found her, straying in the park,
Of us too much beloved. Let us be clear'd
Marry, sir, I come to your worship from Mistress Ford.
I never saw
O, seek not to entrap me, gracious lord,
And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
The government of patience! You have won:
With stately triumphs, mirthful comic shows,
lists. A pavilion by the side of it for the
Young Ferdinand, whom they suppose is drown'd,
So far beneath your soft and tender breeding,
Nor I, but stoop with patience to my fortune.
Re-enter Pedant below, TRANIO, BAPTISTA, and Servants
I thank you for your music, gentlemen.
Before the expiration of thy time,
To quit the penalty and to ransom him.
I will run no base humour: here, take the
Love make your fortunes twenty times above
fear the report of a caliver worse than a struck
keep his house, and I wash, wring, brew, bake,
'Tis probable and palpable to thinking.
Derived from Edward, his great-grandfather.
If I demand, before this royal view,
son the whole name of the war: he hath in this
worn himself, and the rod he might have bestowed on
And hurt my brother.
ANTIPHOLUS
The palsy, and not fear, provokes me.
Go, fool, and whom thou keep'st command.
Stay, good my lords,
As duly, but not as truly,
Should be shut up, hear what Ulysses speaks.
She speaks:
He is a better scholar than I thought he was.
I dare presume, sweet prince, he thought no harm.
faces? Is there not milking-time, when you are
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
Trembling even at the name of Mortimer.
That the proportion both of thanks and payment
Enter LORENZO and JESSICA
Have I not heard great ordnance in the field,
Drive him to Rome: 'tis time we twain
Her eye is sick on't: I observe her now.
I do to spite the world.
may, but at the length truth will out.
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds:
Call up my brother. O, would you had had her!
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
At heaviest answer.
Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
is a better soldier than rashness. Tell him we
his shrift.
Your Coriolanus
When you then were here,
I am sorry for't: the man is a proper man, of mine
Enter a Gentleman
As cause will be obey'd. Please you to march,
Exeunt all but CLOTEN
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge:
May walk again: if such thing be, thy mother
And at the other is my servant Catesby
DON
Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made
Methinks my zeal to Valentine is cold,
It appears, by his small light of discretion, that
Little have you to say
She once being loof'd,
Did not you tell me I should know the man
I cannot bid you bid my daughter live,
I'll tell ye more.
That he should hither come as this dire night,
The gods for murder seemed so content
perfectly I love her, and that is good English.
Troilus, thou coward Troilus, show thy head!
And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two
Il est trop difficile, madame, comme je pense.
Exit
I thank you, madam, that you tender her.
When Signior Sooth here does proclaim a peace,
village, who hath promised to meet me in this place
outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
His beastly mind to us, he hath a court
This is a dear manikin to you, Sir Toby.
Is this most constant wife, who, even now,
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him,
My dreams will, sure, prove ominous to the day.
Degrees, observances, customs, and laws,
Liver of blaspheming Jew,
Exeunt
Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
Will you be mine, now you are doubly won?
Now, captain?
And so I leave you both:
Under the title of John Mortimer.
Jerusalem, and crown her Queen of England ere the
Trumpets sound. Enter KING HENRY V, SCROOP, CAMBRIDGE, GREY, and Attendants
Gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee.
My lord hath interest in them, I will keep them
To draw upon an exile! O brave sir!
And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends!
My mother did but duty, such, my lord,
How long hast thou to serve, Francis?
Give you good morrow, sir.
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
Yes, sooth, and so do you.
Believe her lips in opening it. Proceed.
O that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
me no service as a partisan I could not heave.
Here I disclaim all my paternal care,
Farewell, and take her, but direct thy feet
I had thought to have yerk'd him here under the ribs.
I had rather give my body than my soul.
Which makes him prune himself, and bristle up
That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
And speaks not to himself but with a pride
Saint Alban's battle won by famous York
I have no hope
Before the times of change, still is it so:
And being rich, my virtue then shall be
Then whither goest? say, whither?
And then depart to Paris to the king,
Marry, peace it bodes, and love and quiet life,
A shield as hard as his. A certain number,
This lord go to him! Jupiter forbid,
Why, the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took
The son, compell'd, been butcher to the sire:
And set mine eyes at flow.
Empale him with your weapons round about,
Go, take it up unto thy master's use.
Our great competitor: from Alexandria
course of gratitude, but be a diligent follower of
Is Edward your true king? for I were loath
But, though thou art adjudged to the death
Than wife is to the husband? If this law
Do we shake hands. All come to this? The hearts
That marry wives. Tell me, how if my brother,
And that I'll write upon thy burgonet,
England, impatient of your just demands,
To be discover'd, that can do me good?
My name is Pistol call'd.
But can you teach all this you speak of?
What, John Rugby! John!
Of bloody turbulence, and this whole night
As when, by night and negligence, the fire
They are at hand and ready to effect it.
Then after fight who shall be king of it?
this gross watery pumpion, we'll teach him to know
Hear me, recreant!
Dare come about him.
That I some lady trifles have reserved,
If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son,
Why, I have not another tear to shed:
O, fie, fie, fie!
Sets all on hazard: and hither am I come
My gracious lord, Henry your foe is taken,
Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off
Withal, as large a charter as the wind,
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven?
Valance of Venice gold in needlework,
For thy mistaking so, we pardon thee.
Now therefore let us hence, and lose no hour,
And soon at supper-time I'll visit you
And through the instrument my pate made way,
Than prosecute the meanest or the best
I hope, sir, I will do as it shall become one that
Giving no ground unto the house of York,
himself for joy of his found daughter, as if that
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
I doubt whether their legs be worth the sums
It cannot fail but by
A double blessing is a double grace,
Which for this nineteen years we have let slip,
Where is the enemy? are you lords o' the field?
While he, renowned noble gentleman,
Hang up your ensign, let your drums be still,
He'll so awake as she in fury shall
If he be chaste, the flame will back descend
No ceremony that to great ones 'longs,
In coffins from the field,
Seats herself on the ground
And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
Your reason, mighty lord?
Come, I will have thee, but, by this light, I take
there is two or three lords and ladies more married:
I cry thee mercy then, for I had thought
When that the sleeping man should stir, for 'tis
Prithee, go in thyself: seek thine own ease:
This judgment of the heavens, that makes us tremble,
My lord and brother, God save you!
Can justly boast of. What's your lordship's pleasure?
O, I have fed upon this woe already,
And lay them gently on thy tender side.
breath stinks with eating toasted cheese.
Like humble-visaged suitors, his high will.
Comes at the last and with a little pin
Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
Sheep run not half so treacherous from the wolf,
To serve, and to deserve my mistress' grace,
whoreson must be acknowledged. Do you know this
'Tis well there's one above 'em yet. I had thought
I think there's no man speaks better Welsh.
By a name
Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech,
Exit
That you do love me, I am nothing jealous,
ANTIPHOLUS
If this uncouth forest yield any thing savage, I
Give me some light: away!
was senseless, 'twas nothing to geld a codpiece of a
Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite
And push us from our stools: this is more strange
SCENE I. Troy. Priam's palace.
Do not believe it.
company: banish plump Jack, and banish all the world.
Upon the next encounter yields him ours.
Nor by a hired knife, but that self hand,
My noble lord and father, live in fame!
I think she'll sooner prove a soldier
great fire, and the master I speak of ever keeps a
Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou: I would my
O villain, villain! His very opinion in the
Have theirs, themselves and what is theirs, in compt,
Was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this
I humbly do desire your grace of pardon:
And leave those woes alone which I alone
The truth of this appear. Prepare you, lords,
And so do I.
There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good
That she may long live here, God say amen!
Tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love.
Send thy brass voice through all these lazy tents,
Injurious world! most damned Angelo!
Wear this for me, one out of suits with fortune,
Prove but our marriage lawful, by my life
Why, is he not with the queen?
good purpose. Doth your honour mark his face?
I am thy father's spirit,
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S Cell.
But yet 'tis one.
There is no sure foundation set on blood,
perform, vowing more than the perfection of ten and
Orsino, noble sir,
out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-
Am I not witch'd like her? or thou not false like him?
My wife descended of the Lacies,--
How proud I am of thee and of thy gifts
The healing benediction. With this strange virtue,
To purge this field of such a hilding foe,
With my well saying!
Than that which withering on the virgin thorn
No, nor mine now.
That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio.
another Nan, but, I detest, an honest maid as ever
Have patience, noble duke, I may not open,
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
Call you this railing?
With his mouth full of news.
Before the game is afoot, thou still let'st slip.
Come when the king doth to my lady come,
Hark!
Ay, that I will, and I'll be wise hereafter
It may be, these apparent prodigies,
bring in--God shield us!--a lion among ladies, is a
And the compact is firm and true in me.
It is his five senses: fie, what the ignorance is!
What levity's in youth.
That hath deprived me of your grace and favour,
I'll charm his eyes against she do appear.
And bear't before him: thereby shall we shadow
There is cold meat i' the cave, we'll browse on that,
That says his bravery is not of my cost,
My life itself, and the best heart of it,
Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead.
I warrant you, madam.
Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men,
Can equally move with them. Provide your going,
And live you yet?
So sought'st to hinder.
The sorrow that I have, by right is yours,
Here is the money.
In the disposing of new dignities.
When I do weep, they humbly at my feet
Exit BIANCA
Sing, boy, my spirit grows heavy in love.
What mean these masterless and gory swords
On what I hate I feed not.
Why they are so, but, like to village-curs,
But in the estimation of a hair,
Giving him the paper
no good to us: though the wisdom of nature can
Is a plain fish, and, no doubt, marketable.
With sore distraction. What I have done,
Show me thy chink, to blink through with mine eyne!
Exit
And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks,
Of his return: he answer'd, 'Do not so,
Bootless is flight, they follow us with wings,
To look into the bottom of my place:
Will presently appear,
I got a promise of this fair one here
Just, just, and the men do sympathize with the
You know me, do you not?
Enter Clown
I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive
Here comes one.
the brains of my Cupid's knocked out, and I begin to
Yea, and so used it that were it not here apparent
There be fools alive, I wis,
is done. Now, a song.
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
Enter BUCKINGHAM
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes,
So you may put a man in your belly.
England all Olivers and Rowlands bred,
Exit Regan, led
To mine own room again, making so bold,
'Tis very late, she'll not come down to-night:
Bows not his vassal head and strucken blind
Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.
And the continuance of their parents' rage,
To hear of it: they are about the court,
That know not how to use ambassadors,
him the fair Desdemona, unless his abode be
And here a prophet, that I brought with me
I won his daughter.
The devil speed him! no man's pie is freed
Nay, it is true, or else I am a Turk:
More than I do?--except I be provoked.
And make her chronicle as rich with praise
The shaft confounds,
For good Marina, that her daughter
And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
Rot half a grain a day! he lies to the heart:
To urge the thing held as a ceremony?
Count Claudio?
I believe you,
At courtship, pleasant jest and courtesy,
At least bring forth a wonder, to content ye
Let it be granted you have seen all this--and praise
Which by thy younger brother is supplied,
With all my heart
Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
From treason's secret knife and traitors' rage
To unloose this tied-up justice when you pleased:
What, man! 'tis a night of revels: the gallants
me but as a common man, witness the night, your
Smile to't before, if winterly, thou need'st
She would sit still and weep.
Caesar's no merchant, to make prize with you
To equal him, I will make myself a knight presently.
Hold unbewail'd their way. Welcome to Rome,
In private brabble did we apprehend him.
us to have mercy on him: at which time we will
Be patient, gentle Nell, forget this grief.
Not bear the knife myself. Besides, this Duncan
We have made inquiry of you, and we hear
Rouse him and give him note of our approach.
That would reduce these bloody days again,
And well deserving? yet I know her for
For me, that I may surely keep mine oath,
sixpence in earnest of the bear-ward, and lead his
In such a night
joint-ring, nor for measures of lawn, nor for
brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
SCENE III. The garden of the castle.
I list not prophecy, but let Time's news
Indeed, he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
As cause had call'd you up, have held him to
To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth,
Nor mother, wife, nor England's counted queen.
SCENE II. The same.
Thrice to thine and thrice to mine
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
Go to thy death-bed:
Alack, poor gentleman!
[Above]  O my lord!
And dangers are to me indifferent.
If he be put upon 't, and that's as easy
With what is spoke already.
That presses them and learns them first to bear,
And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And, on my trust, a man that never yet
'Twill fill your stomachs, please you eat of it.
Beseech you,--
And couple Clowder with the deep--mouth'd brach.
mistress exceeds in goodness the hugeness of your
Go therefore, tell thy master here I am,
But let me see: is this our foeman's face?
Whose salt imagination yet hath wrong'd
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven,
Speak, for my heart is full.
Here is better than the open air, take it
For I should melt at an offender's tears,
God save the king! God save the king!
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
Exit
Enter ARIEL, invisible, playing solemn music
Then think you right: I am not what I am.
Take Hereford's rights away, and take from Time
Will't please you eat? will't please your
That could be brought to bodily act ere Rome
Unchain your spirits now with spelling charms
Your sudden approbation.
For the sound man. Death on my state! wherefore
Well, lords, we have not got that which we have:
Under whose colours he had fought so long.
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Thy father's ground.
that your grace had got the good will of this young
I know not, mighty sovereign, but by guess.
We'll have this song out anon by ourselves: my
And shall continue our graces towards him.
And mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns,
Far be it we should honour such as these
And his offence is so, as it appears,
I was adored once too.
He'll shape his old course in a country new.
Come, sirrah.
Alas, poor Clarence! is it for a wife
Exeunt
It makes the course of thoughts to fetch about,
My books and instruments shall be my company,
Steep'd me in poverty to the very lips,
Will you, with those infirmities she owes,
And kill the bees that yield it with your stings!
Attends the emperor in his royal court.
And we his subjects sworn in all allegiance
To see, now, how a jest shall come about!
Farewell, commend me to thy mistress.
It is the flesh of a corrupted heart.
Saying, I liked her ere I went to wars.
And strip myself to death, as to a bed
To furnish him with all appertinents
I will be satisfied, let me see the writing.
Our poesy is as a gum, which oozes
I am their fathers mother, I will see them.
I am Revenge: sent from the infernal kingdom,
The day frowns more and more: thou'rt like to have
they say I will bear myself proudly, if I perceive
By some sly trick blunt Thurio's dull proceeding.
But wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens?
I am a child to chiding.
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
SCENE IV. Windsor Park.
Marry that will, I live and die a maid:
by a divine thrusting on: an admirable evasion
What we will do, we do upon command.
If once they join in trial. Tell your nephew,
This doth not so, for she divideth us:
A hit, a very palpable hit.
Nor I.
Are gone, are gone:
your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
God on our side, doubt not of victory.
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,
Which art a lion and a king of beasts?
That you might see your shadow. I have heard,
laughing, as, ah, ha, he!
There should be one amongst 'em, by his person,
Priests pray for enemies, but princes kill.
Conspirant 'gainst this high-illustrious prince,
Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit
To bind me, or undo me, one of them.
What is the matter?
other ventures he hath, squandered abroad. But ships
Alas, the way is wearisome and long!
To take our brother Clarence to your grace.
That one by one pursue: if you give way,
Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle
Traitor! how now!
And never noted in him any study,
And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt,
And quietness of the people, which before
Who leads towards Rome a band of warlike Goths,
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
A murrain on't! I took this for silver.
his angers, look you, kill his best friend, Cleitus.
In such a time as this it is not meet
To see thy thy Anthony making his peace,
As we do turn our backs
Thou call'dst me king.
Farewell, good king: when I am dead and gone,
Exeunt
The gold I give thee will I melt and pour
Can heaven be so envious?
And given his deputation all the organs
The sweat of industry would dry and die,
By heaven, she is a dainty one. Sweetheart,
Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man, is puff'd,
In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs.
With my two daughters' dowers digest this third:
what news?
And where thou art not, desolation.
[Within]  What, ho! my lord, my lord!
says, is muddied withal: pray you, sir, use the
forbid her my house? She comes of errands, does
My duty then shall pay me for my pains:
With such integrity, she did confess
If he were that which now he's like, that's dead,
A husband's office? shall, Antipholus.
Nor dare to know that which I know. O sir!
Mark it, Cesario, it is old and plain,
Sayest thou?
I' the common show-place, where they exercise.
Give her the right you should have given her cousin,
I have a kind of self resides with you,
in Thisbe's garter, it would have been a fine
No cause, no cause.
Exit
It mourns that painting and usurping hair
Throwing down SOMERSET's head
Enter the PRINCESS, and her train, a Forester, BOYET, ROSALINE, MARIA, and KATHARINE
Therefore give out you are of Epidamnum,
He might have took his answer long ago.
The king to attach Lord Montacute, and the bodies
There is one tree, the phoenix' throne, one phoenix
The advantage of his absence took the king
They often feel a world of restless cares:
If thou wilt outstrip death, go cross the seas,
uneasy to get the cause of my son's resort thither.
Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.
Her eye, and tell me for what dull part in't
O Hero, what a Hero hadst thou been,
And yet to charge thy sulphur with a bolt
He only lived but till he was a man,
An a' speak any thing against me, I'll take him
I may command at most. Get weapons, ho!
Good things will strive to dwell with't.
you to take leave of her, she is very willing to bid
Some speedy messenger bid her repair
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
So will the queen, that living held him dear.
Prithee, call Gardiner to me, my new secretary:
Call on him for't: but to confound such time,
Why, for my king: tush, that's a wooden thing!
go away merry, but they enter my mistress' house
Ruthful to hear, yet piteously perform'd:
carrying gates. I am in love too. Who was Samson's
and a cold capon's leg?
Will you go see the order of the course?
All clinquant, all in gold, like heathen gods,
your grace
You do not counsel well:
Where is he wounded?
O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart
I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip,
And when such time they have begun to cry,
Neglecting an attempt of ease and gain,
Well, my lord,
O brother, with the dismall'st object hurt
Plead for our interest and our being here.
Justice, most gracious duke, O, grant me justice!
Might well have given us bloody argument.
Were to prove false, which I will never be,
Even in the strength and height of injury!
I should knock you here, sir?
That sucks the nurse asleep?
I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
spavins, rayed with yellows, past cure of the fives,
you, Cassio? is he not a most profane and liberal
Then fare you well, for I will hence again:
I make a broken delivery of the business, but the
Exeunt
Impatiently I burn with thy desire,
On his follies: never did I hear
Say we intend to try his grace to-day.
Much comfort in't, says 'My poor prisoner,
if you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.
You are gentlemen of brave metal, you would lift
sent to find those persons whose names are here
Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish
Goodly Lord, what a wit-snapper are you! then bid
And yet, when wit and youth is come to harvest,
Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
We are very sorry for't.
Hit with Cupid's archery,
There's a palm presages chastity, if nothing else.
disturbing the lords within.
And do such bitter business as the day
Which is so serious. Let us bury him,
Murder not then the fruit within my womb,
Enter BRANDON, a Sergeant-at-arms before him, and two or three of the Guard
Princes, enough, so please you.
Than the severity of the public power
fight, you go against the hair of your professions.
That was his mistress.
With crowns imperial, crowns and coronets,
As I can change these poor accoutrements,
Though chance of war hath wrought this change of cheer,
curse of mankind, folly and ignorance, be thine in
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Didst thou not kill this king?
In our not-fearing Britain than have tidings
Good things of day begin to droop and drowse,
Is added to her wounds: I think withal
Hector, thou sleep'st,
it hath seen very hot service. Lend me thy hand,
The lady speaks again in Welsh
Enter WARWICK
Bowing his head against the sleepy mount
believe your majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek
Have moved his highness to commit me now.
DON
And he repents not that he pays your debt,
expecting thy reply, I profane my lips on thy foot,
Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers
That I was nothing.
I sit at ten pounds a week.
Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty,
Varro's Servant	I could render one.
Then let your servants bring my husband forth.
Rates and revenges.
The instruments of darkness tell us truths,
have put themselves into voluntary exile with him,
If it be possible for you to displace it with your
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
eyes, there shall she see my valour, which will then
like the plot, Trinculo?
Most gracious majesty,--
Looking on his hands
Touch'd you the bastardy of Edward's children?
Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim
heart of his obedience. I dare pawn down my life
I must be one of these same dumb wise men,
As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello,
On whom foul death hath made this slaughter,
The Volscians are dislodged, and Marcius gone:
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud,
I shall not find myself so apt to die:
And thou shalt have her. Was't not to this end
His life I gave him and did thereto add
For I am fresh of spirit and resolved
I am thy grandam, Richard, call me so.
O, is this he?
Leaps into the grave
Yes, truly, for, look you, the sins of the father
Is rank'd with all deserts, all kind of natures,
Three months this youth hath tended upon me,
Bestride my threshold. Why, thou Mars! I tell thee,
As yet, to question you about your fortunes.
But what said she?
Go pack with him, and give the mother gold,
To think an English courtier may be wise,
Bound to himself! what doth he with a bond
No, nor a man that fears you less than he,
What! I, that kill'd her husband and his father,
Bliss and goodness on you!
What need we fear?
If I have used myself unmannerly,
You do climb up it now: look, how we labour.
Your bed-chamber.
Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster?
But for my brother not a man would speak,
The fewest roses are cropp'd from the tree
Where nature doth with merit challenge. Goneril,
For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
Why will he not upon our fair request
A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune
As upright as the cedar.
seek him, I'll apprehend him: abominable villain!
Is to be made, then shall this hand and seal
To sue to live, I find I seek to die,
Enter, with drum and colours, CORDELIA, Doctor, and Soldiers
How, madam! Russians!
O, peace! Contemplation makes a rare turkey-cock
If we will keep in favour with the king,
One of the prettiest touches of all and that which
'It is as hard to come as for a camel
O Thou, whose captain I account myself,
I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
Will you go hunt, my lord?
That you shall be my wife, your dowry 'greed on,
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
I have a hundred milch-kine to the pail,
That, being mad herself, she's madly mated.
What do you mean by this haunting of me?
With terrible numbers,
vision. I have had a dream, past the wit of man to
Can you not read it? Is it not fair writ?
I'll keep you company. Will you along?
My mirth it much displeased, but pleased my woe.
The love that follows us sometime is our trouble,
Put up thy gold: go on,--here's gold,--go on,
Come, come, our empress, with her sacred wit
Part us, Northumberland, I toward the north,
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, and LEONATO
O, help me here!
I will, as 'twere a brother of your order,
Till cruel Cleon, with his wicked wife,
I will attend upon your lordship's leisure.
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
Still cupboarding the viand, never bearing
Truly, sir, to see your wife. Is she at home?
brought me up, I likewise give her most humble
O you gods!
Upon Saint Davy's day.
Therefore make haste. I must go write again
So doth the greater glory dim the less:
Is Lewis so brave? belike he thinks me Henry.
Yet that, by you deposed, you quake like rebels?
Nips youth i' the head and follies doth emmew
Which they have often made against the senate,
SCENE II. Alexandria. A room in the monument.
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM, meeting
There he must stay until the officer
Or I would see his heart out, ere the priest
Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
The time shall not be many hours of age
Have learn'd me how to brook this patiently.
As with a man by his own alms empoison'd,
They are now starved for want of exercise:
Our great progenitors had conquered?
And your unblest fate hies: strumpet, I come.
Ye shall, my Lord.
The deer was, as you know, sanguis, in blood, ripe
When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
Feast-won, fast-lost, one cloud of winter showers,
between Macedon and Monmouth, that the situations,
instruments which aided to expose the child were
Pray you, content. What, Oswald, ho!
Why, Paris hath colour enough.
That gave me public leave to speak of him:
Where one part does disdain with cause, the other
To hear me speak the message I am sent on.
Brought me to Mytilene. But, good sir,
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome,
Welcome, you,--how now, you,-- what, you,--fellow,
Is not my friend: this, to confirm my welcome,
for, as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man
And part your mingled colours once again,
Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.
Love you the man that wrong'd you?
I pray thee lend me thy lantern, to see my gelding
speak not this that you should bear a good opinion
Shall she live to betray this guilt of ours,
My worthy Cawdor!
buried in thy eyes, and moreover I will go with
And they that are most galled with my folly,
Jog on, jog on, the foot-path way,
Or how far further shall, is warranted
And for thy sake have I shed many a tear:
But, will the king
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
I would outstare the sternest eyes that look,
Through whom I might command it? Come thou near.
She might have been o'erta'en, and yet she writes,
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
shirts and smocks, socks, foul stockings, greasy
Come, Warwick, come, good Warwick, go with me,
Drown'd, drown'd.
bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel
Parolles, the gallant militarist,--that was his own
When she did starve the general world beside
The moon! the sun: it is not moonlight now.
A man, as you are.
this hot weather. And I think this word 'sallet'
We'll put the matter to the present push.
I am the cygnet to this pale faint swan,
Peace!
One of them showed me a ring that he had of your
England we love, and for that England's sake
And mine, fair lady Bona, joins with yours.
If souls guide vows, if vows be sanctimonies,
SCENE I. The same.
They summon'd up their meiny, straight took horse,
Enter LORD BERKELEY
Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done
To cure the desperate languishings whereof
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings,
Swear not by time to come, for that thou hast
you shall be called to no more payments, fear no
I have strong reasons.
'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise
Whom thus we stray to find, and the sea mocks
And stand unshaken yours.
Doth for a wife abhor. But her fair sister,
Our strong possession and our right for us.
I am bound to serve.
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
For her sake that I have been,--for I feel
Exit
With tapesty of silk and silver, the story
her fool, but her corrupter of words.
Not sick, although I have to do with death,
For England his approaches makes as fierce
and Barnardine. Here is in our prison a common
By the Lord, I'll be a traitor then, when thou art king.
yet, a barful strife!
To-morrow I shall die with mickle age:
Deny thy father and refuse thy name,
and make a stock-fish of thee.
HAMLET moves him to put on his hat
For thee to fight,    JOHN FALSTAFF'
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
Directly unto this question that I ask:
love her, yes, for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing
His powerful mandate to you, 'Do this, or this,
come two noble beasts in, a man and a lion.
Are you content to be our general?
And not have it, 'twere a paper lost,
to reason of such goddesses and hath sent this
And Caesar's spirit, ranging for revenge,
I will assume thy part in some disguise
Name it.
Whither you will, so I were from your sights.
And wrong the reputation of your name,
unless it be to laugh at me.
Go bear him hence. Sister, go you with me.
The empire of the sea: our slippery people,
To hear him named, and cannot come to him.
O good but most unwise patricians! why,
I would you had her spirit in such another:
How wert thou handled being prisoner?
Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.
And die in bands for this unmanly deed!
Son Edward, she is fair and virtuous,
I'll beat thee, but I should infect my hands.
You gods, reward them!
Or stronger for your need.
Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang?
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
A very fatal place it seems to me.
he's a very fool and a prodigal.
My good lord,
Exit
Well, I will back him straight: O esperance!
And that we are contented Caesar shall
At his distemperature.
To our attempts. Am I not stay'd for, Cinna?
Flutter'd your Volscians in Corioli:
Exeunt
And I'll sleep.
When that I say the city-woman bears
of remorse in me.
By my troth, well met. Come, sit, sit, and a song.
Our Earl of Warwick, Edward's greatest friend.
From such a noble rate, but my chief care
I did not think he had been acquainted with her.
Which he enforced from me, away he posts
Enter the Sheriff, and BUCKINGHAM, with halberds, led to execution
Fie, thou dishonest Satan! I call thee by the most
No news so bad abroad as this at home,
scratched face.
Though in some part enforced to digress,
not well cut,' he disabled my judgment: this is
I am directed by you.
Being banish'd for't, he came unto my hearth,
The deep of night is crept upon our talk,
Bear Worcester to the death and Vernon too:
Commended to our master, not to us:
For as a surfeit of the sweetest things
O, in this love, you love your child so ill,
This morning to them.
By losing of our prayers.
She is cunning past man's thought.
are not mine.
Second Serving-man	Do what ye dare, we are as resolute.
Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods,
own appointment, even as you came in to me, her
thousand pound ere a' be cured.
they say one would speak to her and stand in hope of
We will not fly, but to our enemies' throats.
Now the gods keep you old enough, that you may live
And in conclusion to oppose the bolt
[Aside]  These are kind creatures. Gods, what lies
Re-enter ANTONY
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Now, Hector, I have fed mine eyes on thee,
Say I she is not fair?
'Tis noble Kent, your friend.
I'll draw the form and model of our battle,
Who had, no doubt, some noble creature in her,
Yea, the same.
I weep myself to think upon thy words.
And honour'd in their issue.
These words of yours draw life-blood from my heart:
Nor shall not be the last, like silly beggars
This honourable bounty shall belong:
Let the great gods,
Bring me but to the very brim of it,
That Caesar and his senate must redress?
His means most short, his creditors most strait:
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good
And pour'd them down before him.
I dare lay any money 'twill be nothing yet.
Whilst others come to make him lose at home:
Things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour.
Again: if any Syracusian born
Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate,
give thee leave to die: but if thou diest before I
Not as a groom: there's some of ye, I see,
A royal nobleness: I must embrace thee:
Patience her injury a mockery makes.
[To GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS]  Though you did love
[Aside]  How all the other passions fleet to air,
Remember that you call on me to-day:
Advertising and holy to your business,
Lo, he is tilting straight! Peace! I have done.
Red as 'twould burn Rome, and his injury
Betwixt that Holmedon and this seat of ours,
We do not look for reverence, but to love,
If thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument,
What is avouched there. If you miscarry,
Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye,
As ever oak or stone was sound.
To win the king as I am bold her honour
good friends for three reprieves for you and your
Unless to spy my shadow in the sun
Shall blow each dust, each straw, each little rub,
The gods preserve ye!
I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are:
Now, sir, what is your text?
Thy asses are gone about 'em. The reason why the
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command,
And kill the innocent gazer with thy sight,
Re-enter DIOMEDES
Save for the son that she did litter here,
Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair,
More than three hours the fight continued,
Macduff lives in disgrace: sir, can you tell
head, that he gives entrance to such companions?
To their right praise and true perfection!
Hark, hark! I hear
By the heart's still rhetoric disclosed with eyes,
To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.
I'll undertake 't:
you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moonlight.
And make conceive a bark of baser kind
The thing why thou hast drawn it.
It yet hath felt no age nor known no sorrow.
I told him of your stealth unto this wood.
Give me some music. Now, good morrow, friends.
day? Unless hours were cups of sack and minutes
I would they were abed!
My lord, I shall reply amazedly,
Perhaps you have learned it without book: but, I
Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge:
gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman, before
hostess of the tavern a most sweet wench?
Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin:
I do remember well where I should be,
Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two French Lords, with Attendants
cats and blind puppies. I have professed me thy
We'll leave you for this time: go in and rest.
Exeunt
heir-apparent? should I turn upon the true prince?
What from your grace I shall deliver to him.
Of such a winnow'd purity in love,
Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS, and a throng of Citizens
He has made too much plenty with 'em,
Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
But like of each thing that in season grows.
Fie, fie, fie!
And yet be seen to bear a woman's face?
To be call'd whore? would it not make one weep?
To you they have show'd some truth.
Marcius coming home!
Her son into the adoption of the crown:
That these great towers, trophies and schools
I marvel why I answer'd not again:
and a lanthorn, and say he comes to disfigure, or to
prologues to a bad voice?
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
Exeunt LUCIO and Gentlemen
And thrown into neglect the pompous court?
Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
Come, you are a tedious fool: to the purpose. What
with the story of the Prodigal, fresh and new. Go
Which makes the true man kill'd and saves the thief,
Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion,
There's nothing level in our cursed natures,
To raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves:
Would we were all discharged!
He doth with holy abstinence subdue
All westward, Wales beyond the Severn shore,
And thine, Lord Clifford, and you both have vow'd revenge
Re-enter MARCUS, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
Captain of our fairy band,
And every day that comes comes to decay
out moonshine, find out moonshine.
Here at my house and at my proper cost.
Fenton had her, I will do what I can for them all
With such bedecking ornaments of praise?
I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal,
The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness
From whom I have received not only greetings,
Thou never hadst renown, nor canst not lose it.
I could be merry now. Hubert, I love thee,
To save our heads by raising of a head,
With charitable bill,--O bill, sore-shaming
Whereat a villain's not a welcome guest.
Is tight and yare and bravely rigg'd as when
Our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage.
And not be seen to wink of all the day--
I will pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage: If
Belief of it oppresses me already.
For mine own part,
Let housewifery appear: keep close, I thee command.
I came to kill thee, cousin, and bear hence
O, is that all? What will you give me now
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
To be controll'd in that he frankly gave:
So your dislike, to whom I would be pleasing,
Good morrow, Hubert.
Follow him at foot, tempt him with speed aboard,
O, 'tis our setter: I know his voice. Bardolph,
Exit
Exeunt
Resolveth from his figure 'gainst the fire?
This deserves death.
Which then they had to take from 's, to resume
Be pitiful to my condemned sons,
Must cast thee, scarcely coffin'd, in the ooze,
Noise within. Enter WARWICK, SALISBURY, and many Commons
To your protection I commend me, gods.
The letter at Sir Toby's great importance,
contradiction, I have heard that.
As they pinch one another by the disposition, he
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
He's very knowing,
How?
To hear the wooden dialogue and sound
As I can say nay to thee for myself,
piece of Eve's flesh as any in Illyria.
And say 'twill do, I know, within a while
Becoming well thy fact: what canst thou say
Or else the world, too saucy with the gods,
And, certes, the text most infallibly concludes it.
Are these your herd?
speaks brave words, swears brave oaths and breaks
No.
Exit
O sinful thought! Never so rich a gem
But in battalions. First, her father slain:
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
Disdainful to be tried by't: 'tis not well.
I give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance, and,
For the repealing of my banish'd brother?
and all, like him that leaped into the custard, and
In glory of my kinsman Hercules.
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
It must not be with this.
The clock gives me my cue, and my assurance bids me
At market-price have bought.
To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her?
Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
there were not two or three and fifty upon poor old
I will answer you with gait and entrance. But we
thee with a downright blow!
To give their bed joy and prosperity.
Well then, confess and live.
That it might please you to give quiet pass
O, speak of that, that do I long to hear.
I thank thee for myself.
To LUCIO
A gentleman! what gentleman?
You love me not.
Farewell.
pavilion on deck, with a curtain before it, PERICLES
And so I hear he doth account me too,
Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier:
'Tis good, though music oft hath such a charm
And that I owe Olivia.
Go, break among the press, and find a way out
More than the wild-cat: drones hive not with me,
will not, come when you are next prepared for.
You cannot witness for me, being slain.
To have his ear abused, wisdom bids fear.
Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind:
Which makes me hope you are not void of pity.
And reverend looker on, of two fair queens.
That I did love, for now my love is thaw'd,
With one appearing hair, that will not follow
her fortune, her marriage-dowry, with both, her
Would I were as deep under the earth as I am above!
Perpetual durance?
And like an eagle o'er his aery towers,
My father's dead.
Would have flung from him, but, indeed, he could not:
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
Did claim some certain dukedoms, in the right
distinguish of colours, but suddenly to nominate them
De nails. Ecoutez, dites-moi, si je parle bien: de
Of such as your oppression feeds upon,
And yet to win her, all the world to nothing!
No, Kate? I will tell thee in French, which I am
Would that do it good?
As waggish boys in game themselves forswear,
Did come to languish, and indeed, my lord,
O, he's a lovely gentleman!
One that composed your beauties, yea, and one
That shall attend his love.
Re-enter FORD, PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
The motions of his spirit are dull as night
Bravest at the last,
Exeunt LYSANDER and DEMETRIUS
If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not
sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer
Thou must run to him, for thou hast stayed so long
Horrible villain! or I'll spurn thine eyes
Call hither to the stake my two brave bears,
Fear not slander, censure rash,
Aside
Her face defaced with scars of infamy,
there is shrewd construction made of her. Now, Sir
'Twas of his nephew Proteus, your son.
Foster'd, illumined, cherish'd, kept alive.
I view the fight than thou that makest the fray.
A time before we came unto this cell?
Is thought-sick at the act.
'Tis deeds must win the prize, and he of both
Close up his eyes and draw the curtain close,
With promise of high pay and great rewards:
Bid him suppose some good necessity
PROLOGUE
ACT III
Come, officer, away!
By her he had two children at one birth.
be glad of his approach: if he have the condition
On pain of punishment, the world to weet
he is, and in the hottest day prognostication
Like little body with a mighty heart,
And all the currents of a heady fight.
transgression is in the stealer.
To make the dear loss, have I means much weaker
And falls on the other.
You shall not stir out of your house to-day.
To have them recompensed as thought on.
My Lord of Suffolk, say, is this the guise,
Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
It is now two o'clock: but, let me see, by ten
Will not conclude their plotted tragedy.
I have it not about me.
But 'tis my presence that doth trouble ye.
In my oration, how the people take
Exeunt
Keep the door close, sirrah.
And from a mouth of honour quite cry down
Do you think I meant country matters?
Enter the Travellers
A token from her daughter, my fair love,
Could witness it, for he was with me then,
Grave witnesses of true experience,
Call our cares fears, which will in time
Upon whose property and most dear life
I cried to dream again.
March within
Most holy and religious fear it is
To be no better than a homely swain,
I will not keep this form upon my head,
Some blessed power deliver us from hence!
And so extenuate the 'forehand sin:
I know not: but I am sure 'tis safer to
temperance.
Of homage and I know not how much tribute,
Enough, captain: you have astonished him.
Never was such a sudden scholar made,
Beware the ides of March.
off so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
You have your wish, my will is even this:
I like you, lads, about your business straight,
Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
politic love.
SCENE I. Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
How far off is our brother Montague?
I would have all well betwixt you.
Come not near him. If thou wouldst not reside
Produce the prisoner.
Exit Lady
Of our despised nobility, our issues,
Adieu, and take thy praise with thee to heaven!
Re-enter KING LEAR
Glance at my credit with Hippolyta,
OF EPHESUS
Well,
Your money!
Not that I think you did not love your father,
And speak as loud as Mars. By Jupiter,
Will be my knell. Go, play, boy, play.
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
On sheep or oxen could I spend my fury.
Their slimy jaws, and, as I draw them up,
droplets which
Tie up my love's tongue bring him silently.
Healthful, and ever since a fresh admirer
For 'tis a damned slave.
Will ye be gone?
To OLIVER
Thunder. First Apparition: an armed Head
Why have you suffer'd me to be imprison'd,
very epicure.
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
hath seen such scarecrows. I'll not march through
To plead mine innocence, for that dye is on me
A shepherd's daughter.
shepherd, but I seek my master, and my master seeks
Some tardy cripple bore the countermand,
Two of both kinds make up four.
And of their feather many more proud birds,
Why dost thou look so sadly on my son?
An honest one, I warrant, who deserved
For Paris, was it? speak.
In what case?
Throned and set high?--servants, who seem no less,
Thus with my hat, and sigh and say 'amen,'
Follow me not,
monstrous matter of feast, which worthily deserved noting.
Some five or six and thirty of his knights,
The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?
Good day and happiness, dear Rosalind!
wife about her husband's neck, hardly to be shook
Ignomy in ransom and free pardon
I am but a fool, look you, and yet I have the wit to
Indeed, my lord,
When will you go?
And let my counsel sway you in this case.
Must I with base tongue give my noble heart
After his studies or his usual pain?
And break the foresaid peace. Let the king know,
Enter ANTONY
Well, I will go.
Bastards, and else.
O noble fellow!
And cannot now accept, to grace him only
An't please your majesty, 'tis the gage of one that
The greatest miracle that e'er ye wrought:
That as his worthy deeds did claim no less
What fear is this which startles in our ears?
The court of Rome commanding, you, my lord
Shall I stay here to do't?  no, no, although
Bound with triumphant garlands will I come
And spit upon him, whilst I say he lies,
I was preserved to serve this noble count.
How now, Signior Launce! what news with your
My love and her desert, that canst not dream,
Ah! and did they so?
Good signior, you shall more command with years
And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
ah! whoreson caterpillars! bacon-fed knaves! they
Have wish'd the sleeping of this business, never desired
How? unlawfully?
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
[Aside]  And supper too, although thou know'st it not.
hundred pound on't: and then a whoreson jackanapes
displeasures, and his indignations, and also being a
We will perform in measure, time and place:
How goes it with my brave Mark Antony?
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
There would be hands uplifted in my right,
Comest thou with deep premeditated lines,
I' the end admire, where ladies shall be frighted,
Which had they, what four throned ones could have weigh'd
prave man.
And see our gentle queen how well she fares:
We were elected theirs, Marcius is worthy
Give me my nightly wearing, and adieu:
For, with throwing thus my head,
Who!
This loam, this rough-cast and this stone doth show
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
Paris, you speak
talk of horse and armour?
Did you hear the proclamation?
a merciful man, good my lord.
Even till destruction sicken, answer me
By Jove, I'll play the hunter for thy life
By computation and mine host's report.
Would I propose to achieve her whom I love.
But speedily.
Exit ROBIN
Enter AGAMEMNON
and that were enough to hang us all.
Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
Sings
O, be persuaded! do not count it holy
Alencon, Reignier, compass him about,
Nor be rebellious to the crown of England,
Who would believe that there were mountaineers
On whose bright crest Fame with her loud'st Oyes
My lord,
He speaks with such a proud commanding spirit.
I'll meddle nor make no more i' the matter.
it in the behalf of his friend: and I'll swear to
'Proud,' and 'I thank you,' and 'I thank you not,'
SCENE V. Another part of the forest.
Nor do I now make moan to be abridged
As, if God please, they shall,--my ransom then
Enter ROSALIND, with a paper, reading
If you will take this audit, take this life,
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Grew like the summer grass, fastest by night,
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
And dares him to set forward to the fight.
Will you not, sons?
My friend is dead, 'tis done at your request:
If, after three days' space, thou here be'st found
Hath spoken well and justly: therefore, madam,
When he was seated in a chariot
burying-place to all that do dwell in this house,
Where is he?
I am very sorry that you are not well.
husband: but in such a 'then' I write a 'never.'
The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepared,
Call, good Mercutio.
Most certain, if you are she, you do usurp
To die by thee were but to die in jest,
But more than these, in love I do deserve.
For me three thousand ducats.
As yon grim looks do testify.
Though thanks to all, must I select
You shall be mistress, and command him wholly.
like, which else would stand under grievous
Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild,
Till I have used the approved means I have,
For, ere the six years that he hath to spend
Be he the fire, I'll be the yielding water:
Whose dismal tune bereft my vital powers,
My lord, you give me most egregious indignity.
Out, ye rogue! Play out the play: I have much to
The skies, the fountains, every region near
Of my dear friend. What should I say, sweet lady?
SCENE I. The moated grange at ST. LUKE's.
nothing but rail, nor no railing in a known discreet
That diamond upon your finger, say
I am the turned forth, be it known to you,
For I will slay myself.
and 'gentleman.'
Offers to kill her
When he would play the noble beast in love.
he should take his choice. O admirable man! Paris?
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England,
To the monument!
And write to her a love-line.
Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said,
Thou hast cast away thyself, being like thyself,
'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack and be gone.
Make it so known.
But he that temper'd thee bade thee stand up,
I think there is not half a kiss to choose
her favours?
But where is he?
Exeunt
Are confident against the world in arms.
be as it may: though patience be a tired mare, yet
I'll crop, to make a garland for my head.
Hark! they are coming from the field: shall we
By this unheedful, desperate, wild adventure:
When I from Thebes came last a conqueror.
hanging, yields a careful man work.
you.
In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
And I for my escape have put on his,
A maid-child call'd Marina, who, O goddess,
Unquiet meals make ill digestions,
A gentleman, and follower of my lady's.
for conscience sake, to help to get thee a wife.
That we should dress us fairly for our end.
Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it.
Exit
Do the low-rated English play at dice,
A widow cries, be husband to me, heavens!
I would it would be quiet.
Good aunt, stand up.
Of much good news?
Because we see it, but what we do not see
Why, then we rack the value, then we find
What lay before them.
Please you to dispose yourselves.
Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands?
And undertake the teaching of the maid:
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so,
Ere he express himself, or move the people
To be his evidence now.
To glean the broken ears after the man
You told a lie, an odious, damned lie,
If not, elsewhere they meet with charity:
the prince thou art a tall fellow of thy hands and
My Lord Bassanio, let him have the ring:
Let us on heaps go offer up our lives.
Go, stand within, let me alone with him.
Lay couching, head on ground, with catlike watch,
And, by his soul, thou and thy house shall rue it.
How now, sweet Frank! why art thou melancholy?
Your napkin is too little:
Your generals after.
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile,
My lord, I cannot be so soon provided:
commiseration on thy heroical vassal! The
Out-go my thinking on you.
But note me, signior.
And Robin shall restore amends.
Come, then, let's go fight with them, but first, go
Beyond the mark of others: our then dictator,
O, what a noble combat hast thou fought
And makes her pew-fellow with others' moan!
have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis
Of broached mischief to the unborn times?
Under whose shade the ramping lion slept,
In all which time you and your husband Grey
Come, the gods have done their part in you.
Groan so in perpetuity than be cured
To LUCENTIO
For 'twas indeed his colour, but he came
Within this three mile may you see it coming,
Make haste, make haste.
tongues of the French council, and they should
To strive for that which resteth in my choice:
I hear it by the way, but I will send:
Ay, but give me worship and quietness,
That the probation bear no hinge nor loop
Sorry I am my noble cousin should
Nothing but this, 'tis 'bona terra, mala gens.'
Before-time seen him thus.
O, my sweet sir, news fitting to the night,
That dotage gives it.
For certain in our story, she
O happy man! they have befriended thee.
Henry my lord is cold in great affairs,
Enter CORNELIUS and Ladies
Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope
Retires
But for my hand, as unattempted yet,
He will the rather do it when he sees
mere want of gold, and the falling-from of his
Poor soul, God's goodness hath been great to thee:
his use was to put a ducat in her clack-dish: the
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
To this your son is mark'd, and die he must,
Methinks I feel this youth's perfections
Yes, surely.
Exit THYREUS
This blended knight, half Trojan and half Greek.
The venom of such looks, we fairly hope,
Ay, but, by your leave, not before me, the
Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
Enter CLEOPATRA
come in my way, so: if he do not, if I come in his
Grew a companion to the common streets,
the matter, he makes the maid to answer 'Whoop, do me
How long continued, and what stock he springs of,
Enter BIRON
O, but impatience waiteth on true sorrow.
A traitor you do look like, but such traitors
Henceforth I will not have to do with pity:
To no apparent likelihood of breach,
Here is a place reserved, sir.
Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
Well, God give them wisdom that have it, and those
it, whom to disobey were against all proportion of
Melting with tenderness and kind compassion
Since which she was removed to Kimbolton,
Throw death upon thy sovereign's enemies.
Enter EXTON and Servants, armed
Exit
Come you to make confession to this father?
Why are thine eyes fixed to the sullen earth,
Stay your thanks a while,
The mightiest of thy greatest enemies,
If you'll confess he brought home noble prize--
Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool
carelessly, as they did in the golden world.
Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
Some heavenly music, which even now I do,
Exeunt
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke,
Knock you here, sir! why, sir, what am I, sir, that
By this hat, then, he in the red face had it, for
Cloten, the son o' the queen. I fear some ambush.
And she in mild terms begg'd my patience,
SCENE IV. A British prison.
To excuse their after wrath: husband, I come:
presence still smile, dear my sweet, I prithee.'
For they shall yet belie thy happy years,
Hearing you were retired, your friends fall'n off,
That he will not be won to aught against him.
Love got so sweet as when desire did sue.
A goodly lady, trust me, of the hue
Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.
Exeunt WORCESTER and VERNON, guarded
his fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman
tears that ever we shed.
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
Enter a Servant
A sample to the youngest, to the more mature
Against their will. But who comes here?
Here, at thy hand: be bold, and take thy stand.
And we are graced with wreaths of victory.
And that his country's dearer than himself,
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
Thus do all traitors:
Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!
Now it is supper-time in Orleans:
Madam, this service I have done for you,
She came from Libya.
Will leap to be his friend: for us, you know,
question for your residence.
To leave this keen encounter of our wits,
The little number of your doubtful friends.
What means this scorn, thou most untoward knave?
All unseen, can passage find,
With this same very iron to burn them out.
Ere he would have hanged a man for the getting a
Offend our hearing, hush! How dare you ghosts
Sir John! art thou there, my deer? my male deer?
But like a man he died.
Say but the word, and I will be his priest.
Here made by the Roman, great the answer be
Sweet cell of virtue and nobility,
as it hath breadth: it is just so high as it is,
If like a Christian thou hadst truly borne
Thy deeds, thy plainness and thy housekeeping,
Hearing so much, will speed her foot again,
Come hither, captain, hark.
Upon his honour'd finger, to attain
In my opinion, ought to be prevented.
Not I, my lord, unless I did bleed too.
Which parted from you?
But give them to his master for a present.
Which would have been as speedy in your end
Stays here longer.
Thy speech had alter'd it. Hold, here's gold for thee:
better stead thee than now. Put money in thy
Dying like men, though buried in your dunghills,
But seeming so, for my peculiar end:
I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy,
And when she weeps, weeps every little flower,
Uncle, give me your hands: nay, dry your eyes,
Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness:
exquisite friend.
The raven rook'd her on the chimney's top,
No, no, my lord, your grace is perjured much,
her with crying, for the ewe that will not hear her
Thine own particular wrongs and stop those maims
the meaning:
He's coming, madam, but in very strange manner. He
Alas, sir, I know not Jupiter, I never drank with him
These three lead on this preparation
Or yield up Aquitaine.
To come with him along.
Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence,
Will not endure his yoke, and for ourself
For showing me again the eyes of man!
SCENE IV. HERO's apartment.
knot of his scarf, and the practise in the chape of
To make an earthquake! sure, it was the roar
A mankind witch! Hence with her, out o' door:
A cry within
And that be heir to his unhappiness!
He gives them the arrows
Say, has our general met the enemy?
O Silius, Silius,
But I will fit it with some better time.
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
Are mere usurpers, tyrants and what's worse,
The farced title running 'fore the king,
May pierce the head of the great combatant
To start my quiet.
towards London.
Stain all your edges on me. Boy! false hound!
still, ha?
speaks with the tongue of an enemy be a good
Beside the haughty protector, have we Beaufort,
Let me see--about Michaelmas next I shall be--
Of him that, his particular to foresee,
After young Arthur, claim this land for mine,
Have comfort, lady.
Fool, fool! thou whet'st a knife to kill thyself.
Shame and eternal shame, nothing but shame!
And I have play'd the sheep in losing him.
His popular 'shall' against a graver bench
Without the which a soldier, and his sword,
wind were but long enough to say my prayers, I would repent.
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
Ordained is to raise this tedious siege
Why, York, what wilt thou do?
Besides this present instance of his rage,
That in your country's service drew your swords:
Who gave his blood to lime the stones together,
From their abominable and beastly touches
'Item: She hath more hair than wit,'--
What would these strangers? know their minds, Boyet:
It does: but time will--and so--
[Within]  Right, sir, I'll tell you when, an you tell
To GONERIL
I have forsworn.
One of this kind is Cassio:
I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.
I am that merry wanderer of the night.
What may the king's whole battle reach unto?
Then, with your will, go on,
Mock-water, in our English tongue, is valour, bully.
Why, then 'tis time to arm and give direction.
Can found his state in safety. Caphis, ho!
She vaunted 'mongst her minions t'other day,
Of whom your swords are temper'd, may as well
So other foes may set upon our backs.
It may well be,
I would thou hadst done so by Claudio.
Than in Lord Angelo.
Let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of
for ladies.
The three-fold world divided, he should stand
you never heard of!
'Tis I must make conclusion
For to seek my mother!
'Justice, and your father's wrath, should he take me
O, to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words,
No devil will fright thee then so much as she.
Business, my lord! I think most understand
O, I would thou didst,
Come, Hippolyta.
And in a moment makes them desolate.
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO and MOTH
Heaven guard my mother's honour and my land!
Yare, yare, good Iras, quick. Methinks I hear
Forsooth, a blind man at Saint Alban's shrine,
Ay, sir, and he deserves so to be called for his
Thomas the Earl of Surrey, and himself,
Exeunt
If that I could for weeping, you should hear,--
Doth speak of you, his cheek looks pale and with
water, though I seem to drown her remembrance again with more.
But are you sure
Give me your hand, sir.
Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES
Seeking the food he eats
Ay, to such mercy as his ruthless arm,
The battery from my heart. O, cleave, my sides!
Which I have seen thee careful to observe,
Exeunt SALANIO, SALARINO, and Servant
Indeed your drums, being beaten, will cry out,
Prophetically doth forethink thy fall.
By its own visage: if I then deny it,
Thunder
One eye thou hast, to look to heaven for grace:
him a present! give him a halter: I am famished in
Sir, 'tis the governor of Mytilene,
fetch him hither, go.
What present hast thou there?
Making the bold wag by their praises bolder:
And even for that do I love you the more.
thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
Host, will you go?
Save this of hers, framed by thy villany!
Make that thy question, and go rot!
I went to her in white, and cried 'mum,' and she
Thus, then, in few.
Enter the Senators from TIMON
EDMUND is borne off
like three German devils, three Doctor Faustuses.
Would they were basilisks, to strike thee dead!
No, lad, teach me.
On most part of their fleet.
York set him on, York should have sent him aid.
Let silence be commanded.
'Tis true, 'tis true, witness my knife's sharp point.
recompense this long stay: feast your ears with the
Will cut their passage through the force of France,
It may be right, but you are i' the wrong
The most disdain'd of fortune.
Then cheer thy spirit : for know, thou emperor,
Because I would not see thy cruel nails
Not to deny me, and to pardon me.
Is it his use?
[Aside]  Mine honesty and I begin to square.
Lord, how art thou changed! How dost thou and thy
And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
And leave me to this miserable death:
Because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts,
Come on my right hand, for this ear is deaf,
Farewell, my sons: see that you make her sure.
Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle
Enter KING HENRY, PRINCE HENRY, Lord John of  LANCASTER, EARL OF WESTMORELAND, SIR WALTER BLUNT, and FALSTAFF
These famish'd beggars, weary of their lives,
I thank my God for my humility.
It shall,
Thou wouldst be fee'd, I see, to make me sport:
Full of comparisons and wounding flouts,
She being none of your flesh and blood, your flesh
Ay, madam, twenty several messengers:
The gods preserve our noble tribunes! Come.
And with the same to act controlling laws.
press in here, sir, amongst the rest of the country
Both of one horse?
From the presence of the sun,
When living light should kiss it?
Have all limed bushes to betray thy wings,
know no wise remedy how to avoid it.
Nay, but ask my opinion too of that.
Lo, now my glory smear'd in dust and blood!
The French king's sister: he shall marry her.
And that craves wary walking. Crown him?--that,--
Exit CATESBY
Adieu, uncle.
That pupils lacks she none of noble race,
Our purposes God justly hath discover'd,
My gracious father, by your kingly leave,
Sweet Sir Andrew!
The French have reinforced their scatter'd men:
Holding the eternal spirit against her will,
more hereafter.
With all my heart I'll sit and hear her sing:
The ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
the dawning as we do.
Leash'd in like hounds, should famine, sword and fire
Awake! what, ho, Brabantio! thieves! thieves! thieves!
And temper him with all the art I have,
the fear of God, and not with drunken knaves.
Must needs be like my lord. If it be so,
In the habiliments of the goddess Isis
Go thou to Richmond, and good fortune guide thee!
What! to you,
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
That hath made him mad.
Here, Diomed, keep this sleeve.
Not sad, my lord.
Where my son lies. When did you lose your daughter?
Motion! Well, speak on. Where were you born?
Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
I'ld throw it down for your deliverance
O, that our fathers would applaud our loves,
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
I can no longer brook thy vanities.
When thou mayst tell thy tale a nearer way?
I never saw him sad.
Directive by the limbs.
And thus far clear him. Now, what moved me to't,
For villany is not without such rheum,
This is most strange,
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
As far, my lord, as will fill up the time
Before I would have yielded to this league.
A sceptre snatch'd with an unruly hand
heart, and my duty, and my life, and my living, and
so: ever your fresh whore and your powdered bawd:
As thou shalt be, if thou didst kill this child.
O Stephano. hast any more of this?
sentenced and stay upon execution.
What I have done my safety urged me to,
Come hither, gentlemen,
And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear
Partition make with spectacles so precious
Health to you, valiant sir,
In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?
My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
Means and attendants and my loving greetings
Whoever spoke it, it is true, my lord.
You have, I know, petition'd all the gods
this: I'll none of him.
Nay, hear him.
I am content to be Lucentio,
To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.
True, too true, my lord:
And each one to his office when he wakes.
So full-replete with choice of all delights,
Yes, in good faith.
Peace!
The strong-wing'd Mercury should fetch thee up,
Raise all my kindred. Are they married, think you?
Be ruled by him, Lord Ajax.
O, that estates, degrees and offices
By the Lord, I knew ye as well as he that made ye.
For God's sake, a pot of small ale.
Be cross'd with slowness, labour be his meed!
He mock'd us when he begg'd our voices.
And down goes all before them. Still be kind,
Well, husband your device, I'll to the vicar:
With that she sighed as she stood,
I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
As himself pleased, and they were ratified
In quantity equals not one of yours:
O monstrous treachery! can this be so,
Good morrow, sweet Hero.
Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
I am beloved of beauteous Hermia:
[Aside]	Amen:
I have reserved alive.
To pardon me yet for a night or two,
My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words
Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.
We were dissuaded by our wicked queen,
You have done well by water.
They say King John sore sick hath left the field.
To be revenged on him.
And to thee and thy company I bid
For goodness dare not cheque thee: wear thou
who committed treason enough for God's sake,
would preferment drop on my head. I brought the old
Add to my clamours! let us pay betimes
I will dispatch him to the emperor's court.
To make my end too sudden: learn, good soul,
I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.
That wouldst thou holily, wouldst not play false,
I wear it as your enemy.
man, I'll do you your master what good I can: and
honest: now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some
Fie, there is no such man, it is impossible.
one,
I thank thee, gentle Percy, and be sure
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
him like a carbon ado.
Fie on ambition! fie on myself, that have a sword,
Such water-colours to impaint his cause,
But durst not tempt a minister of honour,
Why did you wish me milder? would you have me
Let it fall rather, though the fork invade
Thou hast a grim appearance, and thy face
That bear in them one and the self-same tongue,
Indeed, my lord,
A lack, how may I do it, having the hour limited,
What safe and nicely I might well delay
Leave me, and do the thing I bid thee do.
Which woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep,
he will keep out water a great while, and your water
Well, fare you well: we shall have the freer wooing
Cargo, cargo, cargo, villiando par corbo, cargo.
Exit
I see it feelingly.
Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
farther than to say 'do you in faith?' I wear out
For all your fair endeavors, and entreat,
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Agamemnon's tent.
Give us a prince of blood, a son of Priam,
ground of your fair mistress, make her go back, even
Conduct me to mine host: we love him highly,
A merriment than a vice.
the silly cheat. Gallows and knock are too powerful
Thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life.
Your franchises, whereon you stood, confined
Take what wife you will to bed,
I'll find Demetrius and revenge this spite.
That she shall still be curst in company.
The king shall be contented: must he lose
What service wilt thou do me, if I give them?
May show like all yourself.
But there was more temperate fire under the pot of
Why bear you these rebukes and answer not?
Those prisoners in your highness' name demanded,
There's much example for't, the fellow that sits
Where they shall rest for ever. Trumpets, speak!
The brother blindly shed the brother's blood,
The one as long as the other: 'tis pity of him.
restitution. As I am a true spirit, welcome!
This wooden slavery than to suffer
I do perceive here a divided duty:
Or if that surly spirit, melancholy,
restrained, captivated, bound.
Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
Ha! fie, these filthy vices! It were as good
That there's no hoped-for mercy with the brothers
Inclinable to honour and advance
So, ere you find where light in darkness lies,
ANTIPHOLUS
give him some good counsel, for he seems to have the
The iron of itself, though heat red-hot,
Lo, hand in hand, Lucius and I will fall.
What faults he made before the last, I think
To gain the love o' the commonalty: the duke
words plain, 'Sirrah, knock me here, rap me here,
Assuredly the thing is to be sold:
Come not thou near me: and when that time comes,
I found her trimming up the diadem
more money.
Well know they what they speak that speak so wisely.
Would not my lords return to me again,
Is now in durance, at Malvolio's suit,
How you delight, my lords, I know not, I,
Self-harming jealousy! fie, beat it hence!
No shape but his can please your dainty eye.
Exeunt all but PERICLES
Pretty, i' faith.
The sea-tost Pericles appears to speak.
Now Jove, in his next commodity of hair, send thee a beard!
a little, comfort a little, cheer thyself a little.
The jealous o'erworn widow and herself,
are amazed, but this shall absolutely resolve you.
there rust, and let me die.
A mother to the birth of three? Ne'er mother
What power is in Agrippa,
If it might please you, to enforce no further
For Mariana's sake: but as he adjudged your brother,--
the Tower, to defend the city from the rebels.
To unbar these locks. My conscience, thou art fetter'd
receives not thy nose court-odor from me? reflect I
To triumph, like an Amazonian trull,
Belike 'tis but a rumour. Good night to you.
I prithee, let's be provided to show them
neither, 'twas one of these coronets,--and, as I told
In the vile prison of afflicted breath.
Have studied physic, through which secret art,
By inches waste you: in which time she purposed,
Limps after in base imitation.
For you or any: how far I have proceeded,
treacherous device and never leave thee till he
And needly will be rank'd with other griefs,
What we took from them, which, for traffic's sake,
A servant only, and a gentleman
Othello, leave some officer behind,
are out. He tells me flatly, there is no mercy for
By his cockle hat and staff,
Then he disdains to shine, for by the book
je m'estime heureux que je suis tombe entre les
O foul revolt of French inconstancy!
I have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.
But there is something glows upon my cheek,
And saw the lion's shadow ere himself
of so much money, be now a gainer? Good body, I
Which, but three glasses since, we gave out split--
5. Mayor of London, bearing the mace. Then
That light we see is burning in my hall.
all.
Of this so noble and so fair assembly
No, no, by God's good grace his son shall reign.
And pluck my magic garment from me. So:
The crickets sing, and man's o'er-labour'd sense
Pray you, let's to him.
Give you good night.
That labour on the bosom of this sphere
By all Diana's waiting-women yond,
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and VALERIA
cannot part them.
More homely than thy state. For thee, fond boy,
You wrong me, sir, thus still to haunt my house:
And that he will, and shall, if Lucius live.
my hair, wore gloves in my cap, served the lust of
dully by us. I will in the interim undertake one of
I partly know the man: go, call him hither.
Which whilst it was mine had annex'd unto't
And bide the penance of each three years' day.
And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed:
Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more,
Make your full reference freely to my lord,
Both noisome and infectious.
so.'
Think on the Tower and me: despair, and die!
love, wherein, by the colour of his beard, the shape
Silence, no more: go closely in with me:
own people.
Can alter a decree established:
Against our substitute! Let this friar be found.
filthy officer he is in those suggestions for the
ear withal, but I will tell thee aloud 'England is
Let us not burthen our remembrance with
'Tis certain she is fled.
Wilt thou be gone? Sweet Valentine, adieu!
Cousins, a word, I pray you.
I did appoint?
Well met, my lord, I am glad to see your honour.
not, use him for the present and dismiss him. He
look upon his school-master.
It's monstrous labour, when I wash my brain,
Have thus proceeded.
And strays about to find 'em.
She is so hot because the meat is cold,
I do not like your faults.
Macedon, and there is also moreover a river at
To royalty unlearn'd, honour untaught,
Will raise your highness such a mighty sum
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
I sent for thee upon a sad occasion.
Than pard or cat o' mountain.
And comfort me with cold. I do not ask you much,
have, I am one that, telling true under him, must
He will suspect us still and find a time
Well, sir, what did this gentleman to her?
The man that makes his toe
In us, thy friend: give me thy hand, stand up:
Or shall we on the helmets of our foes
From the rude sea's enraged and foamy mouth
None rare, my lord.
It would infect his speech, that if the king
her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
mine only son, and heir to the lands of me, Signior Vincentio.
That a woman conceived me, I thank her, that she
O mighty Caesar! dost thou lie so low?
For beauty starved with her severity
Solemn music. Enter, as in an apparition,  SICILIUS LEONATUS, father to Posthumus Leonatus,  an old man, attired like a warrior, leading in  his hand an ancient matron, his wife, and mother  to Posthumus Leonatus, with music before them:  then, after other music, follow the two young  Leonati, brothers to Posthumus Leonatus, with  wounds as they died in the wars. They circle Posthumus Leonatus round, as he lies sleeping
Hast practised on man's life: close pent-up guilts,
And keep their teeth clean.
Is turn'd to folly, blasting in the bud,
And so was I: I'll bear you company.
Though it be pity to see such a sight, it well
Cut my lace, Charmian, come,
And utter ruin of the house of York.
I tell you, madam, were the whole frame here,
That swallow'd so much treasure, and like a glass
What said our cousin when you parted with him?
It burneth in the Capel's monument.
How, with my honour, I may undertake
O, matter and impertinency mix'd! Reason in madness!
Moved with remorse of these outrageous broils,
Of sacred chastity and of promise-breach
The sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch,
Would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to
and one thing more, that you be never so hardy to
cat,--but not a musk-cat,--that has fallen into the
It could not slake mine ire, nor ease my heart.
This ring, you say, was yours?
stand upon your honour! Why, thou unconfinable
Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
Flourish. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX, and Attendants
knits her brows.
For the four winds blow in from every coast
Feast at my house, and he shall feast with them.
Is gone to pray the holy king, upon his aid
Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear,
Your nephew, late despised Richard, comes.
Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honour, breath,
So will it, madam till I lie with you.
Why that way?
may find the young Romeo?
This we prescribe, though no physician,
Enter SPEED
By the king.
O, God defend me! how am I beset!
Hark, boys.
He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold,
Wilt thou spit all thyself? The seaman's whistle
Enter CELIA, with a writing
Some little time: so by your companies
Of her that loves him with that excellence
And she believes, wherever they are gone,
Old, cold, withered and of intolerable entrails?
We coursed him at the heels, and had a purpose
And now be it known to you my full intent.
will. Go, go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue,
Higher than both in blood and life, stands up
He striketh him
Of hounds and echo in conjunction.
My strong imagination sees a crown
Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
He.
For we shall presently have need of you.
selling the dukedom of Maine.
To tear the garter from thy craven's leg,
This day shall be a love-day, Tamora.
Where he was to begin and give away
Kneel down, kneel down, and wonder.
Do love, prize, honour you.
pot, shall have ten hoops and I will make it felony
Hume's knavery will be the duchess' wreck,
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
That once was mistress of the field and flourish'd,
The passages made toward it: on my honour,
She does abuse our ears: to prison with her.
It is not possible: you have not a man in all
You shall not bob us out of our melody: if you do,
it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it, if
Exeunt
Why, none but mine own people.
Enter CLEON and DIONYZA
But kiss, one kiss! Rubies unparagon'd,
I am too blunt and saucy: here's my knee:
I am unfit for state and majesty,
with thee.
The beauty of his daughter, he himself
Yea, and perhaps with more successful words
Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain,
DON
That Photinus an eunuch and your maids
Enter Servant
And sway our great designs!
For which I must not plead, but that I am
The prenzie Angelo!
Exit
will hang them. Get you gone, and let me hear no
He dives into the king's soul, and there scatters
The more that Henry was unfortunate.
him as a present to Mistress Silvia from my master,
Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,
What will you do, now my necessity
We pray with heart and soul and all beside:
Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me
you hag, you, come down, I say!
For I intend to have it ere long.
Therefore--
My mother told me just how he would woo,
And 'tis great pity that the noble Moor
Will follow mine, if once they see them spread,
Now, fair befal thee, good Petruchio!
Not so big as a round little worm
As if the garment had been made for me:
Answer his emptiness! Caesar, thou hast subdued
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Have put his knife to him.'
God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
My lord, you nod, you do not mind the play.
God, so long as your majesty is an honest man.
Thou takest up
Made mine eyes water, but more merry tears
A cittern-head.
the danger is in standing to't, that's the loss of
Enter PRINCE HENRY
Alarums, excursions. Enter the BASTARD, with AUSTRIA'S head
If it be well to live, but better 'twere
away the performance: therefore, much drink
I'll do't, my lord.
Good morning to you, fair and gracious daughter.
O, but I fear--How lost you company?
I hate: I had as lief be a Brownist as a
all one, if he be but one knave. He lives not now
Shall take upon 's what else remains to do,
My queen! my mistress!
Here is the man.
Are you more stubborn-hard than hammer'd iron?
Must have their voices, neither will they bate
lost my crupper, with many things of worthy memory,
SCENE VIII. London. The palace.
Thou little know'st how thou dost startle me,
Have made them mules, silenced their pleaders and
As happy prologues to the swelling act
I am content you shall entreat me stay,
Of my conception. The state, whereon I studied
We may live, son, to shed many more.
Exit
Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!
So keen and greedy to confound a man:
You must provide to bottom it on me,
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
And leave me out on't. Would I had no being,
The gallows-maker, for that frame outlives a
The splinter of a lance. Even so much.
And never to let Beatrice know of it.
Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day,
You shall hear one anon.
That thou mightst think upon these by the seal,
Should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt
And death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none,
SCENE II. The same. A street.
More measure of this measure, be not nice.
The secret mischiefs that I set abroach
Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell:
Who? thy lord? that is my lord, Leonatus!
authority shall not see thee, or else look friendly
How! no more!
Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd,
Things past redress are now with me past care.
Methought all his senses were lock'd in his eye,
But boldly stand and front him to his face.
Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps,
How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death,
That hath dishonour'd Gloucester's honest name.
Clarence, whom I, indeed, have laid in darkness,
If whilst I live she will be only mine.
Well, I promised you a dinner. Come, come, walk in
On both sides more respect.
Yet he, of all the rest, I think, best loves ye.
Have at you with a proverb--Shall I set in my staff?
Some messenger betwixt me and the peers,
Durst not presume to look once in the face.
But you must join in souls to mock me too?
To spend upon his haters. If thou please
The rudeness that hath appeared in me have I
But pardon me. I am too sudden-bold:
This practise hath most shrewdly pass'd upon thee,
Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
Perchance he is not drown'd: what think you, sailors?
I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
It is so. Are there balance here to weigh
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible
Thy life is dear, for all that life can rate
Rail on the Lord's enointed: strike, I say!
Sir, in this audience,
I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it
To be o'erpower'd, and wilt thou, pupil-like,
extracting it clutch'd? What reply, ha? What
If aught possess thee from me, it is dross,
Might we but have that happiness, my lord, that you
He would say untruths, and be ever double
Can no way change you to a milder form,
Of his queen mother, which for more probation
Enter QUEEN, BUSHY, and BAGOT
Where is she?
As who should say 'Old lad, I am thine own.'
As all impediments in fancy's course
We'll have him. Sirs, a word.
Thou'rt my good youth, my page,
Since you have shore
O shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
But how he died God knows, not Henry:
She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind,
dislikes, to flatter them for their love.
No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home:
'Zounds, ye whore! is black so base a hue?
Where fame, late entering at his heedful ears,
Titus, I am incorporate in Rome,
SCENE I. The woods. Before Timon's cave.
manner of your garments well.
Good day, Camillo.
I have done my work in, friends: O, make an end
Exit BALTHASAR
street about you, sir, but I marked him not, and yet
Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds
He may my proffer take for an offence,
Exit
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point
Exit
Are turned to one thread, one little hair:
The household of the king.
I sometime lay here in Corioli
After the general, I beseech you next
This is a fellow of the self-same colour
The people love me, and the sea is mine,
On Holmedon's plains. Of prisoners, Hotspur took
But what says Jupiter, I ask thee?
Against the thing I say. Answer to this:
They could not, would not do 't, 'tis worse than murder,
Does not approve me further, who was wont
Mort de ma vie! if they march along
And your fair show shall suck away their souls,
Let me not hear you speak of Mortimer:
Acquaint the queen of your most noble offer,
more of thy old body than I have done. Will they
but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks?
My meaning in't, I protest, was very honest in the
to see the wrestling?
To me you cannot reach, you play the spaniel,
starve: I will fetch my gold and have our two
I thought upon one pair of English legs
Here she lies, sir.
Would they strip from us, being valued thus:
her the infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God
And better in my mind not undertook.
Enter CATESBY
be--drunk to bed.
With burden of our armour here we sweat.
I would land-damn him. Be she honour-flaw'd,
Withal obdurate, do not hear him plead,
IAGO from behind wounds CASSIO in the leg, and exit
Thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance,
Hang the trifle, woman! take the honour. What is
I hope better.
sea-sick, and himself little better, extremity of
Stealing and giving odour! Enough, no more:
Softly, dear sir, good sir, softly. You ha' done me
the wind is loud, and will not lie till the ship be
But if I cannot win you to this love,
Posterity, await for wretched years,
What shall I say? to safeguard thine own life,
thy mother!' then asks Bohemia forgiveness, then
And did upbraid me with my father's death:
Exeunt
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Nor when she purposes return. Beseech your highness,
Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands,
The borrow'd majesty, of England here.
Some sixteen months, and longer might have stay'd,
Believe me, cousin Gloucester,
I,' says she, 'that have so oft encountered him
Send quickly to Sir John, to know his mind.
Thou didst unjustly banish me: whereon,
I know not what, but format in apparel,
Brother of England, how may we content
A man of complements, whom right and wrong
be swine-drunk, and in his sleep he does little
Unarm, unarm, and do not fight to-day.
Look here upon thy brother Geffrey's face,
The imminent decay of wrested pomp.
Thou hast thine own form.
Else I should tell him,--well, i' faith I should,
Camillo, sir, I spake with him, who now
One word, good citizens.
I' the mire.
Myself your loyal servant, your physician,
Soft infancy, that nothing canst but cry,
Which never tender lady hath born greater,
God, the best maker of all marriages,
In tempting of your patience, but am bolden'd
Tell her I am arrested in the street
Ere yet the fight be done, pack up: down with them!
'Tis doubt he will be: letters came last night
Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow,
Abraham and Mistress Anne Page.
most potent in potting: your Dane, your German, and
This murder had not come into my mind:
Comes armed through our watch, so like the king
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
To see your grace.
Till that, I'll view the manners of the town,
Imagine him a Frenchman and thy foe.
his right wits and his good judgments, turned away
And here I take Cordelia by the hand,
Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
Creatures that by a rule in nature teach
As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie,
Thou shalt be heavily punished.
fetch thee with a wanion.
Do thou meet me presently at the harbour. Come
SCENE I. Without the walls of Athens.
My masters, let's stand close: my lord protector
you swinged me for my love, which makes me the
Do as the carrion does, not as the flower,
And stand upon my common part with those
And your supply, which you have wish'd so long,
With those clear rays which she infused on me
Exeunt
Three times to-day I holp him to his horse,
I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make
Did lately meet in the intestine shock
We attend.
SCENE III. The tent of Coriolanus.
And I again, in Henry's royal name,
Even out of your report. But, pray you, tell me,
A precious ring, that lightens all the hole,
No, to my cabin.
You know not
Have you pray'd to-night, Desdemona?
Into an honest house, our story says.
Kneel not, gentle Portia.
tongue to the roof of my mouth, my heart in my
Launce! by mine honesty, welcome to Milan!
thought her spirit had been invincible against all
If he were proud,--
Because they have been still mine enemies:
Wilt please you go, my lord?
To my daughters, and tell them both,
But to recover of us, by strong hand
Why, then, I do but dream on sovereignty,
What news, my friend?
And as for you yourself, our quondam queen,
The gods defend me!
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
If the event o' the journey
Set on there! Never was a war did cease,
With chaces. And we understand him well,
Yes, by all means, if it be but to scrape the
as any man in Illyria.
Hath follow'd certain men unto this house.
That 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts.
Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead,
Ay, is't, I warrant him: do but read.
Bequeathing it as a rich legacy
Hath not her fellow.
What noise? what shriek is this?
Thou art a grave and noble counsellor,
men, though it be the getting of children. Here
'Tis on such ground, and to such wholesome end,
Give me some token for the surety of it.
In hand and hope of action: but we do learn
And I'll go to bed at noon.
I have, my liege.
for mercy and still run and roared, as ever I heard
And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it
Pray you, go fit you to the custom and
I know you'ld fain be gone. An officer!
Yet go we under our opinion still
There let him sink, and be the seas on him!
Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
talk with Margaret,
Good honest men! Thou draw'st a counterfeit
gyves on, for indeed I had the most of them out of
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, and the BISHOP of ELY
The body of the country, city, court,
His foot Mercurial, his Martial thigh,
That he would please to alter the king's course,
Bad news, by'r lady, seldom comes the better:
persuasion, and I doubt not you sustain what you're
In thy dumb action will I be as perfect
Looks fearfully in the confined deep:
Sir, I cannot tell:
the crime of it out of us.
Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night,
If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear
Out of my door, you witch, you hag, you baggage, you
After the Beadle hath hit him once, he leaps over the stool and runs away, and they follow and cry, 'A miracle!'
She's a stranger now again.
And it is nothing, nothing in the world,
To yield your voices?
I have seen thee stem, and thou hast oft beheld
By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of
she was of Carthage, not of Tunis.
A woman sometimes, an you saw her in the light.
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
And in this thought they find a kind of ease,
To sports, to wildness and much company.
Art thou damn'd, Hubert.
As are our wretches fetter'd in our prisons:
is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen
found time to use 'em toward a supply of money: let
That livest to make thine honesty a vice!
For the base matter to illuminate
They are set here for examples.
I'll call for pen and ink, and write my mind.
stairs into the lobby.
Laughest thou, wretch? thy mirth shall turn to moan.
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
O time! thou must untangle this, not I,
For, though before his face I speak the words
Stand fast,
Exit FROTH
My lungs began to crow like chanticleer,
And I would have it suddenly perform'd.
Heaven bless thee!
Welcome, Mark Antony.
Good.
The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
And seem'd to ask him sops as he was drinking.
Exit
No, sooth, sir: my determinate voyage is mere
Rapine and Murder, therefore called so,
They place before his hand that made the engine,
If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife,
hope, here is a play fitted.
Who else must be let blood, who else is rank:
Good king, to be so mightily abused!
Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart:
Of semblable import,--but he hath waged
To beat assailing death from his weak legions:
Give me thy hand, come on.
Well.
A very forward March-chick! How came you to this?
Not so:
Before whose glory I was great in arms,
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
Exeunt
Montez A cheval! My horse! varlet! laquais! ha!
Where didst thou see her? O unhappy girl!
Enter, at the other end of the churchyard, FRIAR LAURENCE, with a lantern, crow, and spade
What she says I'll confirm: we'll fight it out.
That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
Look, what is done cannot be now amended:
world but I, and I am sunburnt, I may sit in a
To answer such a question: stand again:
And find not her whom thou pursuest. Flow, flow,
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
I do, and surely
All tongues speak of him, and the bleared sights
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
Inferreth arguments of mighty strength,
O, what a scene of foolery have I seen,
It is a judgment maim'd and most imperfect
Come, let us hence, and put on other weeds,
I have great hope in that, for in her youth
Where Brutus may but find it, and throw this
And claim her with a loving kiss.
Ours is the fall, I fear, our foes the snare.
Love-news, in faith.
Speak, speak.
work? There, give it your hobby-horse: wheresoever
Exit, with the body
He that dies pays all debts: I defy thee. Mercy upon us!
Lucius, who's that knocks?
action. But, sweet Ned,--to sweeten which name of
That if your highness should intend to sleep
That banish what they sue for, redeem thy brother
Deny't again.
Arise my knights o' the battle: I create you
Brother, a word, descend: brother, I say!
The more accursed thou, that still omitt'st it.
My father dead, my fortune lives for me,
kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman
What is this castle call'd that stands hard by?
which nourisheth it, and the elements once out of
Which was so strongly urged past my defence.
the meeting of the two kings?
If he see aught in you that makes him like,
Into his ears, I may say, thrusting it,
valiant Ajax to invite the most valorous Hector
Fashion it thus, that what he is, augmented,
As I would serve a rat.'
That this his love was an eternal plant,
That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower,
She did show favour to the youth in your sight only
Certain, men should be what they seem.
the knave and get thee, I am much deceived. But,
My master sues to her, and she hath
And hark, what noise the general makes! To him!
nights: your cousin, my lady, takes great
And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate
place thee, I will.
Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
And from this fellow? if we live thus tamely,
No, my lord.
Can the world buy such a jewel?
Flourish. Exeunt
A mock is due. Will you walk on, my lord?
lost by nature.
Mark'd with a blot, damn'd in the book of heaven:
Come, sir, arise, away! I'll teach you differences:
And make rough winter everlastingly.
In summer's drought I'll drop upon thee still,
have a stoup of wine, and here without are a brace
I have a king's oath to the contrary.
Edmund Mortimer, My lord of York and Owen Glendower?
You make me marvel: wherefore ere this time
that he comes not along with her.
To whom they are directed. If you knew
And therefore lost that title of respect
And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys,
Exeunt
--what will you adventure
And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor,
You serve Octavius Caesar, do you not?
Insisting on the old prerogative
My Lord Sands.
King Pepin, which deposed Childeric,
With gentle travail, to the gladding of
Exeunt, those above bearing off MARK ANTONY's body
By all your vows of love and that great vow
A title to Phoebe, to Luna, to the moon.
'Tis almost night: you shall have better cheer
All furnish'd, all in arms,
Suspect me, that I mean no good to him:
As I have heard him swear himself there's one
Down, down to hell, and say I sent thee thither:
Though full of our displeasure, yet we free thee
Pray thee, corporal, stay: the knocks are too hot,
Amen!
Fare thee well, king: sith thus thou wilt appear,
Now, sir, how do you find the prisoner?
Nothing!
Who twice a-day their wither'd hands hold up
Now Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,
Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
Les ongles? nous les appelons de nails.
it agrees well, passant, it is a familiar beast to
Yes, other men have ill luck too: Antonio, as I
Ay, boy.
I have seen her wear it, and she reckon'd it
What is't, knave?
Ay, my good lord.
Peace, I say. Good even to you, friend.
Now, say, Chatillon, what would France with us?
Thou worthiest Marcius!
How now! What's the matter?
She says, you have it, and you may be gone.
But kill him rather. I'll after that same villain,
Two other sons, who in the wars o' the time
Shall furnish me to those Italian fields,
Antony call, I see him rouse himself
Seize on him, Furies, take him to your torments!'
make title to as much love as she finds: there is
My low and humble name to propagate
To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot
Cut thread and thrum,
Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool?
And keep your honours safe!
Pyramus is not killed indeed, and, for the more
Let me entreat to know at large the cause
Nay, he can make obligations, and write court-hand.
thing, as boys and women are for the most part
Like madness is the glory of this life.
Yet, to supply the ripe wants of my friend,
an honourable gentleman.
As thou wilt win my favour, good my knave,
Why, hath your principal made known unto you who I am?
That way inclining, harden'd be the hearts
justice rails upon yond simple thief. Hark, in
Of France and England, whose very shores look pale
You shall not in your funeral speech blame us,
Me tank you for dat.
As thou art a knave, and no knave. What an
Sweet Phebe, pity me.
May do a noble deed! he brings me liberty.
To keep them from uncivil outrages.
For 'tis a chronicle of day by day,
The citizens fly and forsake their houses:
We two, that with so many thousand sighs
To bear the extremity of dire mishap!
My lord, here is my bill.
And, by his treason, stand'st not thou attainted,
Once more we sit in England's royal throne,
Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman.
If you are arm'd to do as sworn to do,
To join with men in scorning your poor friend?
Than she which by her death our Caesar tells
Abhorred slave,
The clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it.
To give thee all, and in his waning age
Hubert, keep this boy. Philip, make up:
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
Why should he not?
He is sir Robert's son, and so art thou.
And when the king comes, offer no violence,
Enter LADY MACDUFF, her Son, and ROSS
No, you shall paint when you are old.
here follows prose.
Did you not tell me this fat man was dead?
When my good stars, that were my former guides,
Every tithe soul, 'mongst many thousand dismes,
That hot rash haste so indirectly shed.
for, believe me, I hear the parson is no jester.
Pluck down benches.
Importeth thee to know, this bears.
Trumpet sounds
And falsehood falsehood cures, as fire cools fire
nothing are they welcome.
Why stay we to be baited
Ourselves to be.
The time approaches
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
And hither shall he come: and he and I
That, had the king in his last sickness fail'd,
And makest them kiss! that speak'st with
The truth is, she and I, long since contracted,
And hear your mother's lamentation!
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
O that you could!
Nor I no more of his, than you of mine.
ANTIPHOLUS
Came in strong rescue. Speak, thy father's care,
not make her husband a cuckold to make him a
majestically, both in word and matter, hang me up by
To me he seems like diamond to glass.
Was ever gentleman thus grieved as I?
For she's a woman to be pitied much:
O, pardon, sir, it doth, and yon gray lines
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
When, being not at your lodging to be found,
Enter a Gentleman
But let our plot go forward: let our wives
'Zounds, he dies: I had forgot the reward.
Where should be graven, if that right were right,
Enter FALSTAFF, BARDOLPH, NYM, and PISTOL
And lead these testy rivals so astray
Which blood, like sacrificing Abel's, cries,
the rest of their company from their sport, to make
Do my good morrow to them, and anon
Follow and see there be no harm between them.
Come down, behold no more.
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
To whom I do appeal, and in whose name
Good, speak to the mariners: fall to't, yarely,
Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils,
That with the plume: 'tis a most gallant fellow.
The loyal'st husband that did e'er plight troth:
This royal infant--heaven still move about her!--
As a nose on a man's face, or a weathercock on a steeple!
world, familiar to us and unknown to lay apart
contract of her marriage and the day it is
And fan our people cold. Norway himself,
Here's such ado to make no stain a stain
This mercy shows we'll joy in such a son:
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
Safe out of fortune's shot, and sits aloft,
politician.
Fly to the court of England and unfold
My lord, I see you're moved.
You speedy helpers, that are substitutes
Give me your hand, Bassanio: fare you well!
Who please to come and hear. For life, I prize it
He sends so poor a pinion off his wing,
Either both or none.
I will not stay behind.
That I must yield my body to the earth
The tedious day with sleep.
Until her husband and my lord's return:
is too soft for him, say I	draw our throne into a
As or by oath remove or counsel shake
Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
Who craves to come aboard. What is your will?
proved, wit! By the Lord, this love is as mad as
And tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
'Twill make me think the world is full of rubs,
mar.
That handkerchief which I so loved and gave thee
At Stony-Stratford will they be to-night:
What's he that wishes so?
Thou speak'st like a physician, Helicanus,
To feed my innocent people.
Find this grand liquor that hath gilded 'em?
When misery could beguile the tyrant's rage,
Knocking within
owl, a puttock, or a herring without a roe, I would
Thou shalt aby it.
SCENE III. The palace.
It is not likely
Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark
Ay, of a snail, for though he comes slowly, he
To swear him in the justice of his cause.
O, pardon, that I name them! Your high self,
Good master doctor, see him safe convey'd
That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a-making,
Their services to Lord Timon: his large fortune
my husband? 'The forked one,' quoth he, 'pluck't
A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb
Madam, we'll tell tales.
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
So please you, this friar hath been with him, and
That from it all consideration slips!
Those palates who, not yet two summers younger,
He was, I heard the proclamation:
Enter a Messenger
not stand to, in conclusion, equivocates him
'Sicinius!' 'Brutus!' 'Coriolanus!' 'Citizens!'
Why, thou say'st true, it is a paltry cap,
will not be seen, or if she be, it's four to one
The complot of this timeless tragedy,
[Sings]
Exit AEdile
Are we betray'd thus to thy over-view?
To answer thy best pleasure, be't to fly,
So, farewell to you both.
Most cruel to herself. What she confess'd
Make the Moor thank me, love me and reward me.
more brain than I have in mine elbows, an assinego
I think you know him, Master Doctor Caius, the
If without peril it be possible,
And leave you hindmost,
to the nurse and bid her still it.
And fix'd on spiritual object, he should still
Who willed you? or whose will stands but mine?
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
But no more sights!--Where are these gentlemen?
Than can my care-tuned tongue deliver him!
I must begin with rudiments of art,
Swear like a ruffian and demean himself
Fie, what an indirect and peevish course
I know it by this mark. He loved me dearly,
And yet, in faith, it is not, his present want
altar, it hath done meritorious service.
Ay.
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
Fury, Fury! there, Tyrant, there! hark! hark!
I grant I am a woman, but withal
He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold:
Did hate thee or thy father!
Rather than life preserved with infamy.
The fashion, less without and more within.
That o'er the green corn-field did pass
Or else he never would compare between.
Nothing to think on but ensuing death:
Is it not yours?
Here's a letter come from yond poor girl.
Soft! see how busily she turns the leaves!
That doth accuse his master of high treason:
[Aside]                Come what come may,
thee: yet for the outside of thy poverty we must
Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?
you: of her I am to speak.
To have my love to bed and to arise,
Than but to know't a little.
The damned'st body to invest and cover
Lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed.
Being of those virtues vacant. I fear nothing
As doth that orbed continent the fire
with any detection in my hand, my desires had
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
That shall enmesh them all.
Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus
woman indeed, one that, in the authority of her
Marry, well remember'd.
And rack thee in their fancies.
Wrench awe from fools and tie the wiser souls
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
in place where, thou shouldst know it.
If they hold when their ladies bid 'em clap.
Have not you love enough to bear with me,
Than to demand what 'tis. Your brother cannot live.
Go after her: she's desperate, govern her.
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Sweet rest his soul! Fly, lords, and save yourselves,
I pray you, think you question with the Jew:
burn, that good pasture makes fat sheep, and that a
May hold together: on her frights and griefs,
DON
That's bad enough, for I am but reproach:
Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?
Brutus is noble, wise, valiant, and honest,
In London streets, that coronation-day,
entirely drunk. We have very oft awaked him, as if
I, sir! ne'er a whit.
Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena.
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and two Gaolers
Such valour in the bearing, what make we
Canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath?
Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond
As 'tis reported, so.
O, they are our friends, but one cup: I'll drink for
Fond man, remember that thou hast a wife,
Where he sits crowned in his master's spite.
That end upon them should be executed.
The king, thy sovereign, is not quite exempt
May token to the future our past deeds.
infect yourself with them?
Exeunt GOWER and FLUELLEN
A gallant lady. Monsieur, fare you well.
What wisdom stirs amongst you? Come, sir, now
A hundred almshouses right well supplied,
Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge!
I'll love no friend, sith love breeds such offence.
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors:
More worthy this place than myself, to whom,
'Tis ten to one this play can never please
Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides,
Death of one person can be paid but once,
Than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces.
Write, 'Lord have mercy on us' on those three,
untuneable.
Poor Clarence did forsake his father, Warwick,
Exeunt
Madam, you're best consider.
Exeunt SILVIA and THURIO
Against that power that bred it: there will she hide her,
[Within]	Lord Hamlet,--
By marrying her which I must reach unto.
And now behold the meaning.
In poor beseeming, 'twas a fitment for
Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands,
love a ballad but even too well, if it be doleful
Despite the bear-ward that protects the bear.
From Silvius, sir.
Immediately he was upon his knee,
Have burst their cerements, why the sepulchre,
If thou deny'st it twenty times, thou liest,
Lord Buckingham, methinks, you watch'd her well:
And yet not so, for what can we bequeath
Not I, till I have sheathed
So, get thee gone, good night Ate eyes do itch,
Exeunt
We'll serve Him too and be his fellow so:
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and Clown
If ever you disturb our streets again,
Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,
What, will your highness leave the parliament?
Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
but I dote on his very absence, and I pray God grant
Enter a Messenger
Making a man a god. 'Tis known, I ever
Not only good and wise, but most religious:
The time of life: arming myself with patience
If you had been the wife of Hercules,
Should I have wish'd a thing, it had been he.
More sharper than your swords, hie to the field:
That, indeed, Sir John, is my business.
But little for my profit: can you think, lords,
Lives in the English court, and is received
Elves, list your names, silence, you airy toys.
In love, i' faith, to the very tip of the nose.
Enter, on one side, QUEEN ELIZABETH, DUCHESS OF  YORK, and DORSET, on the other, ANNE, Duchess of  Gloucester, leading Lady Margaret Plantagenet, CLARENCE's young Daughter
For his advice, nor thought I had one. She
Drum heard
Well, well, we'll leave you.
And make you long become it!
Enter BIANCA and LUCENTIO
Catesby, we come. Lords, will you go with us?
Exeunt
I give it you.
If we compose well here, to Parthia:
You heard her say herself, it was not I.
Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
My own flesh and blood to rebel!
Do it then, that we may account thee a whoremaster
Kneels
For Brutus' sake, I am beholding to you.
Where death is sure. Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt,--
I am the drudge and toil in your delight,
good king's son.
peradventure prings goot discretions with it: there
Are you sure
She is all happy as the fairest of all,
That are to censure them.
Hapless AEgeon, whom the fates have mark'd
Hark! now I hear them,--Ding-dong, bell.
This precious stone set in the silver sea,
Then for the truth and plainness of the case.
Good maid, then.
With whom yourself, myself and other lords,
Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman.
If you will see a pageant truly play'd,
And leave thee in the storm,
It is no vicious blot, murder, or foulness,
since Deucalion, though peradventure some of the
unprovide my mind again: this night, Iago.
And not have spoke on't! In me 'tis villany,
Why, I am past my gamut long ago.
mote out of his conscience: and dying so, death
Like lies disdain'd in the reporting.
good fortunes.
'Tis government that makes them seem divine,
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO, ESCALUS, Lords and Attendants
Excepting none but good Duke Humphrey:
Exeunt
And were brought moping hither.
Holla! approach.
What say you? will you yield, and this avoid,
His son am I, deny it, if you can.
which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear,
think, to liberty: yet am I better
The people are abused, set on. This paltering
But keep our course, though the rough wind say no,
Stood on her cheeks, as doth the honey-dew
And so bestow these papers as you bade me.
So, get you gone. If this penetrate, I will
I'll have mine action of battery on thee.
been executed, I have stood on the pillory for geese
If you have any pity, grace, or manners,
Before his sister should her body stoop
Now will I to that old Andronicus,
to bed when she list, rise when she list, all is as
Man-enter'd thus, he waxed like a sea,
I combat challenge of this latten bilbo.
Hold, ho! Lieutenant,--sir--Montano,--gentlemen,--
Thou grumblest and railest every hour on Achilles,
A league between his highness and Ferrara.
Who is it?
counters, so the acquittance follows.
As seal to this indenture of my love,
I ought to know of: and, upon my knees,
Or else you love not, for to be wise and love
Your highness should deliver up your crown.
Now, fellow, fare thee well.
Yet he shall have a noble memory. Assist.
Wilt take thy chance with me? I will not say
I am like you, they say.
But there's no remedy.
Your younger princely son, he, sir, was lapp'd
A prison for a debtor, that not dares
Unto that element: but long it could not be
While he did bear my countenance in the town,
'lordship:' I ne'er drank sack in my life, and if
Though that my death were adjunct to my act,
Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon:
To faithful service of your majesty.
To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset,
O my dear Silvia! Hapless Valentine!
O Cleopatra! thou art taken, queen:
rather trust a Fleming with my butter, Parson Hugh
Behind the globe, that lights the lower world,
That there be women do abuse their husbands
Mischance and sorrow go along with you!
We please to have it grow. Cheque thy contempt:
When I do name him, let it be thy part
You will take little delight in it, I can tell you,
That I despise thee for thy wrongful suit,
Think'st thou it honourable for a noble man
For so they seem: they've left their barge and landed,
At upper end o' the table, now i' the middle,
Ay, but not frighted me, therefore I'll sleep again.
ANTIPHOLUS
And so farewell until I meet thee next.
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
'Tis done.
Your sauciness will jest upon my love
What fairies haunt this ground? A book? O rare one!
The word is 'mildly.' Pray you, let us go:
'Tis well that I get it so. But, Launce, how sayest
Madam?
This is some monster of the isle with four legs, who
But on the sight of us your lawful king,
Of the ranged empire fall! Here is my space.
Have just our theme of woe, but for the miracle,
press-money. That fellow handles his bow like a
For Edward, for my brother, for his sake: Why, sirs,
Come, poor babe:
Expect him here: when he shall come and find
Now, governor of Paris, take your oath,
Such as I love, and you, among the store,
simple conjectures: but that is all one. If Sir
SCENE II. The same.
sufficient. Yet his means are in supposition: he
Enter BASSANIO, PORTIA, GRATIANO, NERISSA, and Attendants
What is the end of study? let me know.
Be't as our gods will have't! It only stands
Even for this time I spend in talking to thee.
Then speak again, not all thy former tale,
I could beat forty of them.
E'en that.
Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed
I, Daedalus, my poor boy, Icarus,
The dismall'st day is this that e'er I saw,
As fire drives out fire, so pity pity--
Should I now meet my father,
here comes Doctor Caius.
Poland winter: if she lives till doomsday,
but for the stuffing,--well, we are all mortal.
My lord, I aim a mile beyond the moon,
While I sit lazy by.
Let us withdraw, 'twill be a storm.
For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.
Dull thing, I say so, he, that Caliban
SCENE III. England. Before the King's palace.
Ha!
And bring thee forth brave brood.
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
And could it not enforce them to relent,
Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly?
Whom I have sent for to determine this,
That I, unworthy body as I am,
To such a greeting: villain am I none,
Why then you are utterly shamed, and he's but a dead
Hermione, my dearest, thou never spokest
Signior Antonio, many a time and oft
We are to speak in public, for this business
For wheresoe'er thou art in this world's globe,
The lamb entreats the butcher: where's thy knife?
Give me my sword.
Whiles you chid me, I did love,
Will you not dance? How come you thus estranged?
I think I should have told your grace's tale.
Thou hast not done before.
More than Octavius and Mark Antony
Whom once more I present unto your highness.
being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me.
Boy, stand aside. Caius Ligarius! how?
Here, Tamora, though grieved with killing grief.
Ay, it is fit for your lordship only.
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
And let the stinking elder, grief, untwine
Gloucester, why doubt'st thou of my forwardness?
And top of sovereignty?
Profess myself the winner of her honour,
I am the last of noble Edward's sons,
That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls,
With Cupid's arrow, she hath Dian's wit,
she grew round-wombed, and had, indeed, sir, a son
Descend, for you must be my torchbearer.
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino
His very genius hath taken the infection of the device, man.
They are up already, and call for eggs and butter,
I'll hence to London on a serious matter:
And when I urged the ransom once again
Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady,
You look but on the outside of this work.
A lying trophy, and as oft is dumb
Sir, I think
complaint they have to the king concerns him
Forgetting any other home but this.
'Jesu maintain your royal excellence!'
Persuades me I was better when a king,
Had I this cheek
Can we, with manners, ask what was the difference?
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
And let him take't at worst, for their knives care not,
And laboured all I could to do him right,
In sign, whereof, this arm, that hath reclaim'd
The English army is grown weak and faint:
Stand you awhile apart,
Met him in boroughs, cities, villages,
has not past three or four hairs on his chin,--
More sinn'd against than sinning.
say an old man is twice a child.
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Virtue itself: these shrugs, these hums and ha's,
Shall braying trumpets and loud churlish drums,
And hire those horses, I'll be with thee straight.
Enter, with drum and colours, HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND, Attendants, and forces
Take to you, as your predecessors have,
I know him for a man divine and holy,
Lord Longaville said, I came o'er his heart,
pate of father Time himself.
old ling and our Isbels o' the country are nothing
than I can: you may ask your father, here he comes.
'And more faults than hairs,'--
perfection of a good and particular mistress.
I hope it is some pardon or reprieve
To SUFFOLK
If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,
Want no money, Sir John, you shall want none.
Or else conclude my words effectual.
Ah, Humphrey, can I bear this shameful yoke?
Smother her spirits up.
Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all
Nor I, nor any
Gentle cousin,
And,--do you mark me, sir?
Which as they kiss consume: the sweetest honey
Midnight, assist our moan,
Shall lodge thee till thy wound be thoroughly heal'd,
And formally, according to our law,
Go, bid her hide him quickly from the duke.
Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
Let me embrace thee, sour adversity,
You press me far, and therefore I will yield.
Such a dependency of thing on thing,
This bird you aim'd at, though you hit her not,
If partially affined, or leagued in office,
What, shall I find you here?
I prithee, tell me what thou thinkest of me.
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
When such profound respects do pull you on.
This quarrel will drink blood another day.
thou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but
Go, gentlemen,
I pray thee, mark me.
a bench, but he'll speak with you.
And I will fill them with prophetic tears.
Where are they? Gone? Let this pernicious hour
So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow
And am moreover suitor that I may
This is the law, and this Duke Humphrey's doom.
The tender love I bear your grace, my lord,
The royal disposition of that beast
And what is music then? Then music is
I speak it with a single heart, my lords,
And bid them speak for me: but were I Brutus,
He hath a stern look, but a gentle heart:
I thought, by your readiness in the office, you had
SCENE III. Wilds in Gloucestershire.
Why, then she is the devil's dam, a joyful issue.
Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood,
Discolour: and so Montjoy, fare you well.
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
Enter, severally, DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as a friar, and Provost
Well met, my lord chamberlain.
Than she to scant her duty.
Well, sir, I'll bring you to our master Lear,
Give me some music, music, moody food
O the blest gods! so will you wish on me,
To know the cause of your abrupt departure.
Service.
Dismay not, princes, at this accident,
you shall go, so shall you, Master Page, and you, Sir Hugh.
How now! what news?
I do owe them still
you, as you shall desire in a summer's day. Here is
'Item: She is slow in words.'
Is your name Shylock?
Exeunt PROTEUS and SILVIA severally
Till the last step have brought me to my love,
Knight of the noble order of Saint George,
Ay, but the case is alter'd:
For, by thy gracious, golden, glittering gleams,
I am blest in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford,
our unlawful intents? We shall not then have his
Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
But shall we dance, if they desire to't?
No, I would tell what 'twere to be a judge,
Well with this lord: there was not full a month
creep under his gaberdine, there is no other
grieves me, and the spirit of my father, which I
And by him seal up thy mind,
Make haste, the bridegroom he is come already:
she'll none of me: the count himself here hard by woos her.
How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit,
That so he might recover what was lost.
What, canst thou say all this, and never blush?
And look where Publius is come to fetch me.
And with thy weapon nothing darest perform!
Exit
Didst ever hear a man so penitent?
Nor cutpurses come not to throngs,
And ill beseeming any common man,
Will I lend ear to. Ha! what shout is this?
it on a giant. Bring up the brown bills. O, well
[Aside to MENAS]  Forbear me till anon.
[To KENT]  Prithee, tell him, so much the rent of
The Dauphin longs for morning.
That very envy and the tongue of loss
for though she's as like this as a crab's like an
wench is cast away: she's quick, the child brags in
I am not sorry neither: I'ld have thee live,
Did us but loving wrong.
Standing on slippers, which his nimble haste
These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.
With his free duty recommends you thus,
Lo, here, this long-usurped royalty
Sits on his horseback at mine hostess' door,
Sweet scrolls to fly about the streets of Rome!
I now perceive, it was not altogether your
Here will I stand till Caesar pass along,
could disunite.
Minime, honest master, or rather, master, no.
Which made me down to throw my books, and fly--
All's true that is mistrusted: that false villain
Patiently to bear my wroth.
O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more:
Out of my grief and my impatience,
For the fair devil. Now art thou my lieutenant.
unto thee: knock, I say.
Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? where is Bagot?
By and by, I come:--
the challenge, subscribed for Cupid, and challenged
he gave unto his steward a mighty sum.
Look, where he stands and glares!
in a sleep, and, giving him the lie, leaves him.
make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate: do
I would I had not known him, it was the death of the
The very trick on't.
Nor posted off their suits with slow delays,
My services which I have done the signiory
that Clifford's manhood lies upon his tongue.
ne'er the wiser.
Shall rue the hour that ever thou wast born.
me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
O, my good lord, why are you thus alone?
Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes,
My other self, my counsel's consistory,
to prison, Pompey?
Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
he hath not yet made wanton the night with her, and
Not as a brother.
He shall kill two of us, and men indeed:
He met the night-mare, and her nine-fold,
This is the ring you sent to Silvia.
And slew your fathers, and with colours spread
settled only in rogue: some call him Autolycus.
Makes me from wondering fall to weeping joys,
on his head, bearing a long white wand, as
He hath ta'en the infection: hold it up.
all my trumpery, not a counterfeit stone, not a
though I am not bookish, yet I can read
Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John? do you
be a tall fellow of thy hands.
Roused on the sudden from their drowsy beds,
Right true it is, your son Lucentio here
To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's,
I oft deliver'd from his forfeitures
And then I will proclaim young Henry king.
had rather it would please you I might be whipt.
Thou told'st me they were stolen unto this wood,
Exeunt
What's the disease he means?
From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
constant being won: they are burs, I can tell you,
'Faith, that was not so well, yet would I knew
In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen:
This is Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein, a lover is
admit no discourse to your beauty.
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
turn, therefore say what a paragon she is, and thou
am as well in my wits, fool, as thou art.
Ah. mocker! that's the dog's name, R is for
come out. Ha! bots on't, 'tis come at last, and
Exit
Nay, good Ajax.
Arise, I say.
Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
'Peace, tawny slave, half me and half thy dam!
Bound sadly home for Naples,
that I have seen, some shall see.
What, wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian,
To Italy, and there at Venice gave
I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed
To stand auspicious mistress,--
Hath made thee hard in't. Why shouldst thou hate men?
That she preparedly may frame herself
Embolden'd with the glory of her praise,
I am glad on't with all my heart.--
Consort with me in loud and dear petition,
That's thousand to one good one--when you now see
Come, come, dispatch, 'tis bootless to exclaim.
To cast into my teeth. O, I could weep
The other way's a Mars. Bid you Alexas
These are a side that would be glad to have
Retain but privilege of a private man?
For England, cousin, go:
Who after me hath many a weary step
And when was he wont to wash his face?
At point a hundred knights: yes, that, on every dream,
Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?
Why did he so?
Exit
Melodious birds sings madrigals,
What's the matter?
When thou wert regent for our sovereign,
Est-il impossible d'echapper la force de ton bras?
Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd
Nay, that's not so.
Ay me! sad hours seem long.
Being captain of a pinnace, threatens more
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
That envied his receipt, even so most fitly
Have I in such a prison.
Hold, for your lives!
As it might be, perhaps, were I a woman,
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
I would not be the villain that thou think'st
that Hero loves me, intend a kind of zeal both to the
But goers backward.
heart, for, truly, I love none.
Thou teachest me. Minion, your dear lies dead,
If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it
Nay, task me to my word, approve me, lord.
They that bear
It comes not ill, I hate not to be banish'd,
But O how vile an idol proves this god
With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart,
It's dry, sir.
O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
LAVINIA kisses TITUS
And yet she'll kneel and pray, I have seen her do't.
Son, list to this conjunction, make this match,
CLEOPATRA kneels
To-morrow morning to the council-board
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
Nothing that I respect, my gracious lord.
I can live no longer by thinking.
By any understanding pate but thine?
Take my prayers with you.
Such factious emulations shall arise!
The things that are not? O error, soon conceived,
[Aside]  Pray God defend me! A little thing would
Takes AGAMEMNON aside
Ah, but some natural notes about her body,
Whether Caesar will come forth to-day, or no,
Nay, I am sure it is, Volumnius.
Lay by these:--
But fare thee well, thou art a gallant youth:
But, since I am a dog, beware my fangs:
Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.
What dost thou think 'tis worth?
And barbarism itself have pitied him.
father, for the king's son took me by the hand, and
Men shut their doors against a setting sun.
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
What he hath won, that hath he fortified:
That even our love durst not come near your sight
Let's exchange charity.
Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
And evils imminent, and on her knee
You break into some merry passion
transgresses is but patched with sin, and sin that
And wisdom of my council, but I find none.
The deputy elected by the Lord:
Having bound up the threatening twigs of birch,
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails.
And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.
Go hie thee presently, post to the road:
For lifting food to't? But I will punish home:
Thus contumeliously should break the peace!
My heart hath one poor string to stay it by,
for light, else, sir, no more tribute, pray you now.
Against thy deity.
Our party may well meet a prouder foe.
I understand thee, thou hadst some means to keep a
is within a very little of nothing.
That she is dead. Nurses are not the fates,
appointment, to be ourselves.
Oh, no, no, no, no: my meaning in saying he is a
To give each naked curtle-axe a stain,
odds with his own gravity and patience that ever you
The king and queen there! that they were, I wish
If not from hell? the devil is a niggard,
Sent by the king your father
O, that must be
I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--
Believe me, she has had much wrong: lord cardinal,
hath he provided this music?
Advance your standards, and upon them, lords,
When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,
Who first raised head against usurping Richard,
I am sure the duke
Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?
And of opposed natures.
Let her awhile be secretly kept in,
Good sooth, I care not for you.
Still waving, as the fits and stirs of 's mind
all, it is impossible. My lords, Saint Alban here
the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
You spend your passion on a misprised mood:
That other men begin.
Jack Cade hath gotten London bridge:
the forest: he hath been a courtier, he swears.
The count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor
Bring me just notice of the numbers dead
I'll make division of my present with you:
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
Exeunt
To know what willing ransom he will give.
Deny to speak with me? They are sick? they are weary?
I,--
Himself a king.
What is the time o' the day?
War with good counsel, set the world at nought,
Yet indirection thereby grows direct,
Well met, Corporal Nym.
She were an excellent wife for Benedict.
good must of necessity hold his virtue to you, whose
Traffic's thy god, and thy god confound thee!
Fear not, sweet wench, they shall not touch
Imprison'd is he, say you?
supplied when I have made it empty.
It would make a man mad as a buck, to be so bought and sold.
Lay kissing in your arms, lord cardinal.
Awake, sir, awake, speak to us.
is the next way to give poor jades the bots: this
My state is desperate for my master's love,
'Tis Banquo's then.
words are a very fantastical banquet, just so many
Without the peril of the Athenian law.
'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
His overthrow heap'd happiness upon him,
And health on both!
Is warlike Lucius general of the Goths?
What, that an eel is ingenious?
Exit CHARMIAN
His tyranny for trifles, his own bastardy,
But I should know her as well as she knows me.
Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed
To the winds whose pity, sighing back again,
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Exit
That did renew old AEson.
Must by the hungry now be fed upon:
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
O, let my sovereign turn away his face
Therefore I shall beseech you, if you please
Which dreads not yet their lives' destruction.
Falstaff: him keep with, the rest banish. And tell
Than of his outward show, which, God he knows,
seen the day of wrong through the little hole of
O serpent heart, hid with a flowering face!
Pernicious protector, dangerous peer,
Exit with Officers
Did verily bear blood?
great abatement of kindness appears as well in the
And do my spiriting gently.
And for whose death we in the world's wide mouth
eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher
Let's before as he bids us: he was provided to do us good.
To tell, he longs to see his son, were strong:
Let them not speak a word, the guilt is plain,
That doth sustain my house, you take my life
SCENE IV. The palace yard.
A man whom both the waters and the wind,
Well, sir, learn to jest in good time: there's a
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel,
Nothing else: you shall see him a palm in Athens
Whom you pretend to honour and adore,
Enter PARIS, and his Page bearing flowers and a torch
'twould not ha' bin zo long as 'tis by a vortnight.
Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
Live where their prayers did: and it's come to pass,
To bitterest enmity: so, fellest foes,
And ripen justice in this commonweal:
And mark'd you both and for you both did blush:
As low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall,
Unmanner'd dog! stand thou, when I command:
And then in post he came from Mantua
Pleased fortune does of Marcus Crassus' death
How comes this trick upon him?
knapped ginger or made her neighbours believe she
The best persuasions to the contrary
And pass them current too. God's me, my horse!
Mine was secure.
If your leisure served, I would speak with you.
The shadow or your face.
To manage private and domestic quarrel,
That, when the exigent should come, which now
The man that mocks at it and sets it light.
Have left me issueless, and your father's blest,
When I was wont to think no harm all night
And trouble not the peace.
But she would spell him backward: if fair-faced,
Many that are not mad
And when old time shall lead him to his end,
Exeunt
Exeunt
an unshunned consequence, it must be so. Art going
Here comes his servant: how now, Catesby,
Never mole, hare lip, nor scar,
And leave you not a man-of-war unsearch'd:
To us that give you truly: by your patience,
Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded,
Must be digested, give a favour from you
Stand not to answer: here, take thou the hilts,
All this I speak in print, for in print I found it.
wrestling, which you have lost the sight of.
ANTIPHOLUS
Walk, and be cheerful once again, reserve
Baccare! you are marvellous forward.
the moon, I care not.
For your own quiet, as to rectify
Who hither come engaged by my oath--
Enter PAGE
vaillant, et tres distingue seigneur d'Angleterre.
Unknown to you, unsought, were clipp'd about
Ay me, detested! how am I beguiled!
And how stand you affected to his wish?
The traitorous Warwick with the men of Bury
fellow met me on the way and told me I had unloaded
And vows to crown himself in Westminster.
This 'tis to be married! this 'tis to have linen
more. Adieu, trusty Pompey. 'Bless you, friar.
The gods, not the patricians, make it, and
Let me stand here till thou remember it.
To do in these fierce vanities? I wonder
Where, being but a private man again,
Enter LODOVICO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
learned from my entertainment. What I am, and what I
honorificabilitudinitatibus: thou art easier
Those wits, that think they have thee, do very oft
Forspent with toil, as runners with a race,
Who, in my mood, I stabb'd unto the heart.
His worth is warrant for his welcome hither,
Exeunt General,  and c
May fright the hopeful mother at the view,
Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome.
That had not half a week to go, like rams
That touches Caesar nearer: read it, great Caesar.
SCENE I. France. Before Harfleur.
Should grieve thee more than streams of foreign gore:
Ho, Lucilius! hark, a word with you.
In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
And, trust me, I was coming to you. You look very
And the blots of Nature's hand
Between our sovereign and the French king Charles,
Anointed, I implore so much expense of thy royal
Her suit is now to repossess those lands,
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, PEMBROKE, ESSEX, SALISBURY, and others, with CHATILLON
And, with the rest full-mann'd, from the head of Actium
What was my first? it has an elder sister,
but thee, and thou deservest it.
Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry,
Let me read.
schooled and yet learned, full of noble device, of
And God acquit them of their practises!
Madam, we are here.
'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you:
ACT I
They gave us our demands.' Thus we debase
Stabbing MUTIUS
Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
Whose daughter, as we hear, the Earl of March
Try fortune with him in a single fight.
Thy leg a stick compared with this truncheon,
For you are spell-stopp'd.
Good morrow, masters: each his several way.
As I learn'd,
Is it yourself?
things: I am not of your element: you shall know
her, to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
He loves me well, and I have given him reasons,
And arm the minds of infants to exclaims.
An if we live, we live to tread on kings,
Ay, and for an assault too.
Sometimes to do me service: nine or ten times
A mess of Russians left us but of late.
Ay, in truth, my lord,
[Aside]  Mass, 'twill be sore law, then, for he was
us.
My thoughts, that labour to persuade my soul
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
if you like her, so, if not, I have lost my earnest.
As to expend your time with us awhile,
The boy disdains me,
Solicit Henry with her wondrous praise:
I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee?
Therefore let our alliance be combined,
A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave,
Painted on a pole, and underwrit,
Pompey the Great, and Suffolk dies by pirates.
Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you
breathes at's nostrils.
Whereto constrain'd by her infirmity,
Nay, but he prated,
Worth six on him.
What 'twere to kill a father, so should Fleance.
I will send him hither to you presently.
With the Moor, say'st thou? Who would be a father!
'Faith, they listened to me as they would have
O, I were damn'd beneath all depth in hell,
And turn her out to who will take her in:
He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he, as if
Ah, what a life were this! how sweet! how lovely!
Of his profession, that his good receipt
Ay, good my lord.
If ever lady wrong'd her lord so much,
The strain of strutting chanticleer
Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate,
pair his nails, for they shall hang out for the
You are welcome.
And all our princes captiv'd by the hand
Who is't that cried!
Hast thou denied thyself a Faulconbridge?
I cannot find him: may be the knave bragged of that
O Lord, sir, who do you mean?
Until this instant. Take a trumpet, herald,
Should be past grief: do not receive affliction
Titus Lartius writes, they fought together, but
the ort 'dissolutely:' the ort is, according to our
Hath blown that vice in me: I must repent.
A drop of blood a day, and, being aged,
Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his
Come in, and let us banquet royally,
O boy, thy father gave thee life too soon,
The imperial seat, to virtue consecrate,
I cannot truly say how I came here,
Ay, and we are betroth'd: nay, more, our,
She shall not strike Dame Eleanor unrevenged.
As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
I am tame, sir: pronounce.
Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night,
The pleasant garden of great Italy,
Silence!
Yet know, my lord, I was provoked by him,
Pewter and brass and all things that belong
This king were great, his greatness was no guard
Fetter strong madness in a silken thread,
Recover breath, tell us how near is danger,
Well, on to the market-place.
A due sincerity govern'd his deeds,
Ambitious love hath so in me offended,
Arise, and say how thou camest here.
Re-enter CHARMIAN and Messenger
Tell her, Emilia.
Of eyes again so royal! Your crown's awry,
And meet me presently at Berkeley.
Out of the bowels of the harmless earth,
Exit
on he has the cramp.
An outward honour for an inward toil,
And ruthless slaughters as are daily seen
To you, the liver, heart and brain of Britain,
Doth your highness call?
If he should break his day, what should I gain
Injurious Margaret!
But, Warwick,
offence, Claudio?
Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss:
At supper.
Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul.
Retires
Behold, I choose thee, Tamora, for my bride,
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
And pity 'tis you lived at odds so long.
I tender so the safety of my liege.
O' the floor,
Fool!
Thus stands the case: you know our king, my brother,
Your children were vexation to your youth,
Proclaim that I can sing, weave, sew, and dance,
But music for the time doth change his nature.
on a pole, or no. Take him away, and behead him.
Exit, bearing off his father
O thou dissembling cub! what wilt thou be
Have you importuned her to such a purpose?
Pleads your fair usage, and to Diomed
For, lords, to-morrow is a busy day.
We will awake him and be sure of him.
Mark Antony,--
Brook is his name?
Enter SIR WALTER BLUNT
I'll fight till from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
And farewell goes out sighing. O, let not
Ah, simple men, you know not what you swear!
I pray thee, mark me--that a brother should
And you are her labour'd scholar. Come, queen o'
How now! what's the matter?
But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
He lies to-night within seven leagues of Rome.
And he that will not fight for such a hope.
That I, one Snout by name, present a wall,
Is that any thing now?
They most must laugh. And why, sir, must they so?
The setting sun, and music at the close,
But by my ruin.
And I do hope good days and long to see.
No matter, since
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
Hear but my name, and tremble.
They are a sweet society of fair ones.
these exhalations?
Where your brave father breathed his latest gasp,
I told her so, my lord,
When Talbot hath set footing once in France
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead,
I would be so triumphant as I am?
Our part therein we banish with yourselves--
So tell your master.
A grandam's name is little less in love
Exit
As Stephen Sly and did John Naps of Greece
Exit
As if an angel dropp'd down from the clouds,
I heard him say, Brutus and Cassius
Itself to motion, like as it would speak,
heaven forgive my sins at the day of judgment!
Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind,
You have: I knew it would be your answer. Well,
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
no desires.
To the tuition of God: From my house, if I had it,--
My lord, my lord,
Let's take leave of him.
Thou dost deliver more or less than truth,
Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here,
And yet dear too, because I bought mine own.
He shall have nothing but the penalty.
the fool said, and so say I, and I the fool: well
For to deny each article with oath
As I by friends am well advertised,
Or I have no observance.
For that John Mortimer, which now is dead,
brother's evil disposition made him seek his death,
Look, as I blow this feather from my face,
In summer, where the ways are fair enough:
Good morrow, and well met. How have ye done
Madam, myself have limed a bush for her,
It should be now, but that my fear is this,
two hundred crowns.
him, and a third drowns him.
bring forth this counterfeit module, he has deceived
Exit Lady
at such a convoy, who came off bravely, who was
Let it command a mirror hither straight,
And never live but true unto his liege!
I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
My countryman, but yet I know him not.
And of an earthy cold? Mark her eyes!
the state, and usurp the beggary he was never born
Within two days for this.
For God's sake, lords, give signal to the fight.
The king comes here to-night.
Ay, and the best she shall have, and my favour
To be spoke to but by the recorder.
ACT IV
What?
Had you not lately an intent,--speak truly,--
A trifle, some eight-penny matter.
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
Do make their children blind,
Nothing but thunder! Merciful Heaven,
He shall not hear thee, or from Caesar's camp
Cause the musicians play me that sad note
They fear us not, but issue forth their city.
Opinion's but a fool, that makes us scan
know this to be true, therefore prepare yourself to
To silence envious tongues. Be just, and fear not:
Upon the gad! Edmund, how now! what news?
Exeunt
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
When English measure backward their own ground
That she may quickly come.
Get me ink and paper:
It seems you are in haste: an if there be
To plainer ground.
Who is my principal?
His soul thou canst not have, therefore be gone.
Now, God save thy life!
But soft, but see, or rather do not see,
This day had plotted, in the council-house
Saying, 'What lack you?' and 'Where lies your grief?'
On thee I lay whose wisdom's strength can bear it.
Be not offended:
Do so. This jest shall cost me some expense.
Becomes a woman best, I'll take't upon me:
Enter TALBOT and JOHN his son
Thou canst not do a thing in the world so soon,
What yours?--and yours?
Expecting absent friends. As thou lovest her,
The lioness had torn some flesh away,
Enacted wonders with his sword and lance:
Re-enter MARIA
Your reason?
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows,
To whom I am a neighbour and near bred.
Born in Verona, old Antonio's son:
A servant grafted in my serious trust
all others?
Not my desert.
With all respect and rites of burial.
My liege, I am advised what I say,
Lest that their hopes prodigiously be cross'd:
Where many of the best respect in Rome,
There is one Mistress Ford, sir:--I pray, come a
ballad against the hard hearts of maids: it was
To die before you please!
That to her brother which I said to thee:
To be your comforter when he is gone.
The hazard therefore due fall on me by
That thou hast proved Lucilius' saying true.
Thy latest words. In the reproof of chance
SONG.
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid,
Enter Attendants, and BIGOT, carrying KING JOHN in a chair
After his patient's death: the king already
Unwilling I agreed. Alas! too soon,
bottle of sack: our soldiers shall march through,
is allowed for the day-woman. Fare you well.
What dost you mean by this?
SCENE I. Before Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
My lord your son made me to think of this,
But that he sees the Romans are but sheep:
Thunder and lightning. Enter from opposite sides, CASCA, with his sword drawn, and CICERO
Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS
And, Proteus, we dare trust you in this kind,
Their scanted courtesy.
Which by us shall blessed be,
He childed as I father'd! Tom, away!
prodigal, who dare scarce show his head on the
For certain words he spake against your grace
rare carpenter? Come, in what key shall a man take
We'll yoke together, like a double shadow
He will allow no speech, which I do guess
If I should be! I had rather be a pedlar:
My father was attached, not attainted,
True, who bears hard
Or, if not so, thy noble heart to break:
All's done, all's won, here breathless lies the king.
Which, out of use and staled by other men,
sir?
That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper,
Come, come, Lord Mortimer, you are as slow
But those that sought it I could wish more Christians:
Can thereto frame his spirit.
It was two ere I left him, and now the clock
Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE
You taught me language, and my profit on't
Well, she looked yesternight fairer than ever I saw
But Macbeth is.
cinque pace faster and faster, till he sink into his grave.
Have made themselves so strong:--for with her death
Fear'd by their breed and famous by their birth,
Look, therefore, Lewis, that by this league and marriage
Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
I to myself am dearer than a friend,
Thy daughter shall be wedded to my king,
[Aside]              One way I like this well,
Thou bid'st me to my loss: for true to thee
Come hither, fellow: which way hast thou been?
To ORLANDO
Which by a vision sent to her from heaven
Within three hours will fair Juliet wake:
Pompey the Huge!
To call upon him, he hopes it is no other
Applies an asp
And whatsoever you will employ me in,
How canst thou make me satisfaction?
that ever the devil could have made you our delight?
Dash him to pieces!
And seized upon their towns and provinces.
My father and my uncle and myself
in that surge, like a horse-shoe, think of
Well, it was proclaimed 'damsel.'
We must do something, and i' the heat.
You kill'd her husband, and for that vile fault
doer of this, and he is to be thanked.
The wreck of all my friends, nor this man's threats,
in some form.
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
Quickly, quickly! is the buck-basket--
Who call'd me traitor, mountaineer, and swore
But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
Let's fight it out and not stand cavilling thus.
Like to a duchess, and Duke Humphrey's lady,
where I could not breed no contention with him, but
I have a heart as little apt as yours,
you up. Boult's returned.
Sweet royalty, bestow on me the sense of hearing.
Will put thy shirt on warm? will these moss'd trees,
What's here?
Doth speak sufficiently he's gone to travel.
But all be buried in his gravity.
Offering KENT his cap
This purse of ducats I received from you,
A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore
All this I know, and to the marriage
Have I not told thee how I was cozened by the way
me, and by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous,
Never to taste the pleasures of the world,
Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor
To warn false traitors from the like attempts.
It pleaseth you, my royal father, to express
O, these deliberate fools! when they do choose,
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
What dost thou know me for?
Chiron, we hunt not, we, with horse nor hound,
Exit POLONIUS
Exeunt
Father, I know, and oft have shot at them,
What private griefs they have, alas, I know not,
Is't possible you will away to-night?
What, was I born to this, that my sad look
My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left,
High-stomach'd are they both, and full of ire,
[Awaking]  What angel wakes me from my flowery bed?
When sapless age and weak unable limbs
If consequence do but approve my dream,
borrows of the moon, when Diomed keeps his
If but one of his pockets could speak, would it not
Condemn the fault and not the actor of it?
What, ho! no watch? no passage? murder! murder!
I am the most unhappy woman living.
So gain'd the sur-addition Leonatus,
Why, this is lunatics! this is mad as a mad dog!
Madam, I was very late more near her than I think
If I had said I had seen him do you wrong?
Did you assay him?
Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile, and I gave
SCENE I. Friar Laurence's cell.
Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.
You are a royal one, and we obey you.
Hath it not, boy?
And, like a shifted wind unto a sail,
Beseeching thee, if with they will it stands
He finds himself beholding to us all.
I hope, in no place so unsanctified
That approaches apace, I would gladly have him see
That would be ten days' wonder at the least.
This villanous salt-petre should be digg'd
Not for delights, times to repair our nature
For in this rapture I shall surely speak
Hath broke his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
The contract you pretend with that base wretch,
Why, that's my dainty Ariel! I shall miss thee:
We shall have a rare letter from him: but you'll
Thou canst not, cardinal, devise a name
By false accuse doth level at my life:
the dukes fall upon the king.
Where is Nathaniel, Gregory, Philip?
Can touch him further.
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
Cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
Sweet lady, you have given me life and living,
And certainly in strange unquietness.
Why, lo you now, I have spoke to the purpose twice:
Where is best place to make our battery next.
She had, and would incense me
Of any constant man. What, worse and worse!
Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
In faint retire. O, bravely came we off,
For that he has,
Ne'er issued from his blood. Take my defiance!
I were best to leave him, for he will not hear.
honourable father.
'Fly pride,' says the peacock: mistress, that you know.
I sin in envying his nobility,
hast a fine forehead.
As best thou art experienced, since thou know'st
Bench by his side:
What news more?
It seem'd, appear'd to Rome. By the discovery.
And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee,
And never rise until my tears and prayers
Conveniently the rest convey,
SCENE IV. The forest.
Beginning nor supplyment.
What else, fellow?
Hold amity? 'Tis hard, almost impossible.
Or nicely charge your understanding soul
Enter three or four Petitioners, PETER, the Armourer's man, being one
Will soon be levied. Herald, save thou thy labour,
drop in his porridge.
Of here and every where. Straight satisfy yourself:
Belike they had some notice of the people,
BISHOP
I' faith, or I either?
From Ireland thus comes York to claim his right,
Salisbury is a desperate homicide,
Nay, follow him, gentlemen, see the issue of his search.
We'll thwack him hence with distaffs.
Your master quits you, and for your service done him,
thyself into the trick of singularity,' and
For there will be a world of water shed
Why hath it given me earnest of success,
Have brought a countercheque before your gates,
But what trade art thou? answer me directly.
When I have slain thee with my proper hand,
Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives
You're welcome, my fair guests: that noble lady,
Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
Set him breast-deep in earth, and famish him,
They talk apart
How! caught of me!
I speak from certainties. Nay, more,
What is he that builds stronger than either the
Ay, sir, I'll call them to you.
Nor look upon the iron angerly:
And I will.
Here: what would my lord?
What, not an oath? nay, then the world goes hard
And wheresoe'er he is, he's surely dead.
Our slaughter'd friends the tackles, what of these?
ANTIPHOLUS
Noble Ventidius! Well,
To make an envious mountain on my back,
Our knees shall kneel till to the ground they grow:
But wherefore stand'st thou with thy weapon drawn?
Dies
Order the trial, marshal, and begin.
And this the regal seat: possess it, York,
like a kern of Ireland, your French hose off, and in
A gentleman of Tyre,
because I have railed so long against marriage: but
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
Have we march'd on without impediment,
O excellent! I love long life better than figs.
Sir, my lord would instantly speak with you.
Exit POLONIUS
Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look'd to.
Unto the climate that they point upon.
So study evermore is overshot:
I'll bring her to the Grecian presently:
How now, Dame Partlet the hen! have you inquired
Are they returned to the court?
Re-enter SIR TOBY BELCH, with SIR ANDREW
Here comes the townsmen on procession,
For undertaking so unstaid a journey?
Cannot outfly our apprehensions.
Nor longer stay in your curst company.
Sir, I must have that diamond from you.
Here is Sir William Lucy, who with me
And make a show of love to proud Duke Humphrey,
Which all this while had bled, and now he fainted
monarch? I should venture purgatory for't.
Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood,
And I will set this foot of mine as far
Come hither.
Exit one with the Clerk
This way, my lord.
Am I the master here, or you? go to.
And let it answer every strain for strain,
No more of that.
Now, Richard, I am with thee here alone:
O' my word, the father's son: I'll swear,'tis a
With some delight or other.
If I were not in love with Mopsa, thou shouldst take
Ay, ay.
on with my speech in your praise, and then show you
If good King Pericles be.
I have one word to say to you: look you, my good lord,
What did you swear you would bestow on me?
What would you do?
say he lies?
Let me go, I say.
Unlike all others, chaffless. Pray, your pardon.
We'll put thee down, 'gainst whom these arms we bear,
Made him give battle to the lioness,
again such preposterous discoveries!
Like Sir Actaeon he, with Ringwood at thy heels:
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle
Let us be wary, let us hide our loves,'
Go, Peto, to horse, to horse, for thou and I have
Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due to a woman, one
Good queen!
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
Exit
figures out of your husband's brains. If they can
Yes, I beseech, or I shall short my word
at his dog:
And feast and banquet in the open streets,
And, though he in a fertile climate dwell,
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, HENRY PERCY, and other Lords
Neglect me, lose me, only give me leave,
Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew
Melt Egypt into Nile! and kindly creatures
Behold, this is the happy wedding torch
Go tell this heavy message to the king.
In any summer-house in Christendom.
With his eyes full of anger.
Here was a Caesar! when comes such another?
From my remembrance clearly banish'd his.
Of thy nativity! I would the milk
A rage whose heat hath this condition,
Do in his name religiously demand
Near or far off, well won is still well shot,
More than I seem, and less than I was born to:
The penalty and forfeit of my bond.
Carries beyond belief.
John de la Car, my chaplain, a choice hour
Do not you chide, I have a thing for you.
No, my most wronged sister, Cleopatra
SCENE III. Wales. Before Flint castle.
the world I fill up a place, which may be better
O good sir, my master charged me to deliver a ring
and only the gift of the gods.
Do draw the inward quality after them,
The men of Tyrus on the head
charge: you shall comprehend all vagrom men, you are
Where is Antony?
To kill him, Clitus. Look, he meditates.
And fell so roundly to a large confession,
Alas, what noise?
At Ephesus, the temple see,
But out upon this half-faced fellowship!
Cousins, indeed, and by their uncle cozen'd
After defunction of King Pharamond,
fellows and betray themselves to every modern
The great'st grace lending grace
The gentlest winds of heaven.
SCENE III. Court of TITUS's house. A banquet set out.
Gather the sequel by that went before.
Then the liars and swearers are fools,
He leaves his friends to dignify them more,
DON
That have preserved her welfare in my blood,
O, a pit of clay for to be made
A yielding 'gainst some reason in my breast
the year! we'ld find no fault with the tithe-woman,
Down, strumpet!
Did ever so long live, no sorrow
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
And chides the sea that sunders him from thence,
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
My lord, she may be a punk, for many of them are
Short tale to make, we at Saint Alban's met
Why should he die, sir?
Your bondage happy, to be made a queen?
The wood began to move.
Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?'
O, she misused me past the endurance of a block!
The goodliest weapons of his armoury
Till their soul-fearing clamours have brawl'd down
The worthy thane of Ross.
So long as Edward is thy constant friend,
SCENE VII. Another part of the plains.
And such high vaunts of his nobility,
From your own mouth, my lord, did I this deed.
Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
How now, worthy soldier?
Some gentle order, and then we shall be blest
Or lose mine arm fort: thou hast beat me out
be done, damns himself to do and dares better be
Dear, trouble not yourself: the morn is cold.
For I have only been silent so long
O sovereign mistress of true melancholy,
To hear the solemn curfew, by whose aid,
For fear their colours should be wash'd away.
On Athens, ripe for stroke! Thou cold sciatica,
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
After new fancies: she, dying, gave it me,
Then let us take a ceremonious leave
You drew your sword upon me without cause,
Re-enter ORLANDO, with ADAM
To link with him that were not lawful chosen.
Laden with gold, take that, divide it, fly,
Fled from her wish and yet said 'Now I may,'
The pretty-vaulting sea refused to drown me,
thou wast born with.
Faith there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine
I thought it princely charity to grieve them.
I crave your honour's pardon.
And there assume some other horrible form,
For it is after midnight, and ere day
Yes, better, sir.
Born in Northamptonshire and eldest son,
Poor Tom's a-cold.
You see how full of changes his age is, the
As I am confident and kind to thee.
With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
As hot as Perseus, spur thy Phrygian steed,
To appease an angry god.
As all the world--why, he's a man of wax.
I say lead is slow.
May not one speak?
The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be
Where life hath no more interest but to breathe!
That, by killing of villains,
Looking before and after, gave us not
Whose compass is no bigger than thy head,
And there will we be too, ere it be long,
We are for you: sit i' the middle.
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
If it be not for some purpose of import,
That though his actions were not visible, yet
And pass'd him unelected.
Away, for your relief! and we will live
No less to have done so, let me enfold thee
Enter VALENTINE
Thy life's a miracle. Speak yet again.
A glass that feated them, and to the graver
Bring forth the gallant, let us hear him speak.
But, as I think,--for truly would I speak,
He'll then instruct us of this body. Young one,
And in that shame still live my sorrow's rage.
am glad to hear it.
Was,--were he evil used, he would outgo
To woo your lady:
I'll be with you straight go a little before.
This present object made probation.
All purity, all trial, all observance,
Of my alleged reasons, drive this forward:
And I, the mistress of your charms,
But think you, lords, that Clifford fled with them?
Why, what wouldst thou do there before I go?
What, wilt thou not? then, Clarence, do it thou.
If I live to be as old as Sibylla, I will die as
This is a strange thing as e'er I look'd on.
He that has the two fair daughters: is't he you mean?
'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
And, till she come, as truly as to heaven
That I may compass yours.
Nor doth he of himself know them for aught
Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are:
Ere't be disburden'd with a liberal tongue.
SCENE I. A hall in DUKE SOLINUS'S palace.
Exeunt some with Lord SAY
Master, some show to welcome us to town.
Most welcome, bondage! for thou art away,
Make thine own edict for thy pains, which we
Be you content, fair maid,
wooing, nor her sudden consenting, but say with me,
Fare you well: had you such a loss as I,
A thriving issue: there is no lady living
letter to you, I should have given't you to-day
Why, this is like the mending of highways
ceremonious affection as you were wont, there's a
Follow me, sirs, and my proceedings eye:
These are complements, these are humours, these
The heavens themselves, the planets and this centre
It is a mind
My heart
so I, being Master Parson, am Master Parson, for,
And this, indeed, O world, the heart of thee.
That your estate requires and mine can yield.
That she shall have, besides an argosy
Portia, forgive me this enforced wrong,
air, and, as I am a gentleman, betook myself to
O sweet Sir John!
Re-enter ANTONIO, with the Ladies masked
Here had the conquest fully been seal'd up,
another thing: we must have a wall in the great
That in the ocean seeks another drop,
Beating him
My tears gainsay, for every word I speak,
Exeunt all except PRINCE HENRY and PETO
The true succeeders of each royal house,
Enter TROILUS
To sweep the dust behind the door.
when you come into your closet, you'll question this
This man said, sir, that Don John, the prince's
And I from Mantua, for a gentleman,
love no man in good earnest, nor no further in sport
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
Answer I must and shall do with my life.
Prithee, tell me one thing first.
A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
Nor showing, as the manner is, his wounds
have you that charitable title from thousands, did
I'll lay my life, with my disposer Cressida.
To hear of pleasure's name,
With titles blown from adulation?
They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed,
Sir, my liege,
Are not these large enough?
Into something rich and strange.
matter of heavy consequence, I have kept of them
A loving nurse, a mother to his youth.
Long kept in Bretagne at our mother's cost?
Shall never see his pardon, for my state
And we will mend thy wages. I like this place.
Is true of mind and made of no such baseness
Brought her to Mytilene, 'gainst whose shore
To be so taken at thy peril, Jew.
You'll win two days upon me.
Of capital treason we arrest you here.
Until I meet the king.
On us thou canst not enter but by death,
Give me your hand first. Fare you well, my lord.
Understanding, it strikes a man more dead than a
I wear no knife to slaughter sleeping men,
him their examination.
Take comfort: he no more shall see my face,
Enter JAQUES DE BOYS
As Priam is in Ilion.
By leaving earth? comfort me, counsel me.
In the unshrinking station where he fought,
Here's a petition from a Florentine,
Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts!
Some proper man, I hope: who was it, mother?
Though they themselves did suffer by't, behold
That you stand pensive, as half malcontent?
What should this mean?
salt water.
We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not:
I am, my lord, a wretched Florentine,
To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.
Dumain was at my service, and his sword:
warmth is there in your affection towards any of
Now, my Titania, wake you, my sweet queen.
Fight closer, or, good faith, you'll catch a blow.
O any thing, of nothing first create!
needs be hanged with your pardons about your necks?
Of my lord's tricks and yours when you were boys:
This inundation of mistemper'd humour
Fetch him off, I pray you, he speaks nothing but
Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him,
You are too absolute,
For man or master, then it follows thus,
Who art thou? say, that I may honour thee.
Heaven keep that monster from Othello's mind!
Another Hero!
Drown'd! O, where?
Aches contract and starve your supple joints!
His soul is so enfetter'd to her love,
are: but precise villains they are, that I am sure
Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
I am attended at the cypress grove: I pray you--
Enter RICHARD and SOMERSET to fight. SOMERSET is killed
Would I were able to load him with his desert! Will
Night hangs upon mine eyes, my bones would rest,
That lack'd sight only, nought for approbation
No, my good lord, I have sworn to stay with you:
Of death or death's hand for this one-half year.
I'll show you how to observe a strange event.
I will reward thee
all foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? was ever
Unfit to live or die: O gravel heart!
Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death!
But lest my liking might too sudden seem,
Because he doth not feel, feel your power quickly,
And buy men's voices to commend our deeds:
Is this the man you speak of?
When you shall please to play the thieves for wives,
Blind sight, dead life, poor mortal living ghost,
Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong
All's well, sir: take my power i' the court
In our heart's table, heart too capable
Peace, both, and hear me speak.
Soldiers should brook as little wrongs as gods.
Of vapours that did seem to strangle him.
No planet is of mine.
chain or no.
You know not why we came to visit you,--
Fie, what a question's that,
With wit or steel?
When I was got, sir Robert was away!
Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war,
He only, in a general honest thought
You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune?
I spy a great peard under his muffler.
fool make a third, where he shall find the letter:
picture, she says, that you wot of: Master Ford,
Would move a monster.
Be rein'd again to temperance, then he speaks
The present power of life, but in short time
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
He prays you to save his life: he is a gentleman of
Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
rest of the herd to me that all their other senses
merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by
Enter CAMILLO and ARCHIDAMUS
That in alliance, amity and oaths,
Here comes the little villain.
Shall I play my freedom at traytrip, and become thy
To Bristol castle, which they say is held
opinion, which, bettered with his own learning, the
Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword,
He is so plaguy proud that the death-tokens of it
And show more sign of her obedience,
When he shall hear she died upon his words,
Re-enter CORIOLANUS
To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee:
Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
semblable is his mirror, and who else would trace
with such waterflies, diminutives of nature!
Though fools at home condemn 'em.
And, clasping to the mast, endured a sea
Come, sir, away.
hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing
Your worship was wont to tell me that
fly?
Wears yet a precious jewel in his head,
We have been called so of many, not that our heads
fasted, it was presently after dinner, when you
Of Caesar's death.
Why, Doctor She: my lord, there's one arrived,
PINDARUS stabs him
You have now a broken banquet, but we'll mend it.
Nay, faith, I'll see the church o' your back, and
With heart-blood of the house of Lancaster,
as once I was, and had but this fish painted,
Of treasonous malice.
Enough then for your wonder. But, come on,
Such a nut is Rosalind.
Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
Hast strangely stood the test here, afore Heaven,
would it were otherwise, that I could beat him,
Hark! she speaks: I will set down what comes from
Hath raised me from my bed, nor doth the general care
DON
Our courtiers say all's savage but at court:
March patiently along: let one be sent
When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.
If that the praised himself bring the praise forth:
My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon,
Tribunes, and me, a poor competitor.
were enriched with any other injuries but these, I
You must not think I am so simple but I know the
Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
I do not know that Englishman alive
And her attainture will be Humphrey's fall:
Unless it be to think that she is by
I will ever be your head:
Yet these fixed evils sit so fit in him,
It is the more like to be feigned: I pray you,
From whom you claim, invoke his warlike spirit,
Enter GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, SOMERSET, and MONTAGUE
Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
The thing we sue for.
Nothing so full of heart. But peace, AEneas,
Love wrought these miracles. Bianca's love
What like, offensive.
Take heed, lest by your heat you burn yourselves.
Virtuous and holy, chosen from above,
Although they wear their faces to the bent
He takes false shadows for true substances.
him, he hath a heart as sound as a bell and his
To fool their preparation, and to conquer
That every nice offence should bear his comment.
Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to the world?
Even with the having: it is not so with thee.
But I will watch you from such watching now.
But Silvia is too fair, too true, too holy,
O, for a stone-bow, to hit him in the eye!
Come, let's away. When, Caius, Rome is thine,
Presents more woeful pageants than the scene
None, sir, I have no pheasant, cock nor hen.
Who loved her so, that, speaking of her foulness,
a votary, I have vowed to Jaquenetta to hold the
that only tells a lie and swears it. I cannot be a
The tidings come that they are all arrived.
Juliet, the county stays.
On purpose shut the doors against his way.
And peace established between these realms
Exeunt
that sighs for thee. Remember who commended thy
Exit EDGAR
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal,
Long ere she did appear, the trees by the way
We charge you, on allegiance to ourself,
With better appetite.
Being mechanical, you ought not walk
Nor wish no less, and so, I take my leave.
Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue,
I say, but mark his gesture. Marry, patience,
Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night:
What do ye ask of me, my friend?
Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very
Thou that wast seal'd in thy nativity
Than you are mad, which is enough, I'll warrant,
A barren detested vale, you see it is,
bloody kind,
Therefore, stand up, and, for these good deserts,
'Twas by rebellion against his king.
Thou art pinch'd fort now, Sebastian. Flesh and blood,
Then let me die, for now thou hast no cause.
What tellest thou me of black and blue? I was
court. I think Crab, my dog, be the sourest-natured
Are servanted to others: though I owe
Qualm, perhaps.
If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
He, sir! a tapster, sir, parcel-bawd, one that
Tranio, since for the great desire I had
Collected from all simples that have virtue
They were traitors: honourable men!
Why, how now, Hamlet!
for she hath privately twice or thrice a day, ever
The time invites you, go, your servants tend.
much drink, sorry that you have paid too much, and
Storm still. Enter KENT and a Gentleman, meeting
No countermand, no such example have we:
Since last I went to France to fetch his queen:
I cannot choose but tell him, that I care not,
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows
His execution sworn.
No, no, 'tis all men's office to speak patience
For I have heard that she was there in place.
Nothing but jollity. The gods themselves,
With amber bracelets, beads and all this knavery.
That knows no touch to tune the harmony:
How now! what means this passion at his name?
were best meddle with buck-washing.
Gloucester, I live
Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths,
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest
Pronounce thee a gross lout, a mindless slave,
Acquainted me with interest to this land,
Upon what cause, wrong you? alas, our places,
A lullaby too rough: I never saw
the bear loose, are you not?
Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas,
And what shall become of those in the city?
'Tis very true.
I prattle out of fashion, and I dote
But I can give thee more:
Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause,
The queen, madam,
Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, DIOMEDES, and AJAX
Of divination in our sister work
Hark! he stirs: shall I strike?
Good morrow, cousin Cressid: what do you talk of?
and a knave, which not-withstanding, thou shalt be
And you of yours, my lord! I say no more,
The duke will lay upon him all the honour
were set at eight i' the morning.
What, didst thou offer her this from me?
What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.
That gold must round engirt these brows of mine,
for God's sake: pray you, examine him upon that point.
Even to the disposition that I owe,
No, Caesar hath it not, but you and I,
But shall we wear these honours for a day?
Or, he that slew her brothers and her uncles?
To your so infinite loss, so in our trifles
But how of Cawdor? the thane of Cawdor lives,
Alack, what trouble
And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul,
When thou liest howling.
High'st queen of state,
Yea, beg a hair of him for memory,
I did.
There are a sort of men whose visages
Your lady, sir, your lady: and her sister
Half-part, mates, half-part.
More a little, and then dumb.
O, true, good Catesby: bid him levy straight
Till that the nature of your fault be known
out of my kingdom: go to, carry this.
As I my poor self did exchange for you,
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
No, no,
Of this great sport together, as you guess?
Yes, if you will, my lord.
His words were 'Farewell mistress,' nothing else.
But hold himself safe in his prisonment.
I shall pay dear.
Pompey surnamed the Great,
Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade,
Him that thou magnifiest with all these titles
And do not break into these deep extremes.
Take again
That perish'd by the way: thoughts are no subjects,
For though usurpers sway the rule awhile,
to thy heart, and farewell.'
Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof:
O royal knavery!--an exact command,
welcome dear.
Farewell, dear father!
which his wife seems to me well-favored. I will
Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship.
will not be entreated. Speak to him, ladies, see if
Within the belt of rule.
These words will cost ten thousand lives this day.
As honour, loss of time, travail, expense,
I cry you mercy, 'tis but Quid for Quo.
Madam!
discords: here's my fiddlestick, here's that shall
For some dishonest manners of their life,
Hath almost overta'en him in his growth.
Now, trust me, 'tis an office of great worth
out: wind me into him, I pray you: frame the
But now is Cade driven back, his men dispersed,
His grace is entering. Nay, you must not freeze,
Descended of so many royal kings.
This touches me in reputation.
And say which grain will grow and which will not,
a'leven-pence farthing better: most sweet gardon! I
To do that office of thine own good will
Hired to it by your brother.
But how to make ye suddenly an answer,
We'll wait upon your grace till after supper,
Unto the daughter of a worthless king,
Rightly reasoned, and in his own division: and, by
Well-sailing ships and bounteous winds have brought
Hear me yourself, for that which I must speak
Here sound an English march. Enter, and pass over at a distance, TALBOT and his forces
Pronounce dishonour of her, by my life,
To lay our service freely at your feet,
Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
In evil mixture to disorder wander,
greatness, even to the utmost syllable of your
Enter Chamberlain, SANDS, and LOVELL
Why, this is an arrant counterfeit rascal, I
Vincetino's son brought up in Florence
to bed betimes. Does not our life consist of the
Where is my wife?
Nor need'st thou much importune me to that
Callest thou my love 'hobby-horse'?
Nay, good master parson, keep in your weapon.
By the very truth of it, I care not for you,
Enter LONGAVILLE, with a paper
Exit
I love the lovely bully. What is thy name?
Midway between your tents and walls of Troy,
cut of a certain courtier's beard: he sent me word,
Ah, good father,
So shouldst thou either turn my flying soul,
And bid the lady abbess come to me.
beggar, they will lazy out ten to see a dead
Disgrace and horror, that, on my command,
man.
But now I envy at their liberty,
Look back, defend thee, here are enemies.
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
And the buildings of my fancy: only
See see, my beauty will be saved by merit!
The sudden breach on't.
But such another man!
He shall as soon read in the eyes of others
The bounty and the benison of heaven
Whistling to the air, which, but for vacancy,
Two creatures heartily.
Thou hadst been a knave and flatterer.
I cannot but remember such things were,
After my death the one half of my lands,
Have mercy on me!
So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,
Or else disdainfully, which shall shake him more
Ever in fear to kindle your dislike,
A grievous fault! Say, woman, didst thou so?
Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him.
know how I speed.
Do breed love's settled passions in my heart:
We stood to't in good time.
The honour'd gashes whole.
To use it for my time: I am a brother
Exit Luciana
Thy death, which is no more. Thou art not thyself,
Bodykins, Master Page, though I now be old and of
Re-enter OSWALD
Amen to that, sweet powers!
My cousin Westmoreland? No, my fair cousin:
let's ha' some sport with 'em.
But she perforce withholds the loved boy,
To grosser issues nor to larger reach
Does the world go round?
Set on toward Swinstead: to my litter straight,
Besides I say and will in battle prove,
In differences so mighty. If she be
You shall hear. As good luck would have it, comes
Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break,
My liege, here is the strangest controversy
DUMB SHOW.
Should answer solemn accidents. The matter?
To show his grief: let her be round with him,
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
If that our noble father be alive?
shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion?
Her father's liking: which to bring to pass,
As iron to adamant, as earth to the centre,
mile of my court:' Hath this been proclaimed?
Can he be there in person? 'tis impossible,
truly: wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
But safer triumph is this funeral pomp,
Seven, by these hilts, or I am a villain else.
More plentiful than tools to do't, struck down
the devil.
Are bringing forth our youth. We'll break our walls,
Nay, Master Page, be not impatient.
Exit Worcester
chamber: I'll be so bold as stay, sir, till she come
With thy brave bearing should I be in love,
Now, now, you stars that move in your right spheres,
Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it
No, not the hangman's axe, bear half the keenness
He pours it out, Plutus, the god of gold,
This is against our pleasure.
In humours like the people of this world,
How mean soe'er, that have their honest wills,
Still exaction!
Ho, Helicanus!
Kind sister, thanks: we'll enter all together.
Peace, fool! thy master and his man are here,
Most royal majesty,
A charge too heavy for my strength, but yet
She falls upon her bed, within the curtains
I do note
And the king gone to-night! subscribed his power!
may tutor thee: thou scurvy-valiant ass! thou art
The blood I drop is rather physical
To trust man on his oath or bond,
All by the name of dogs: the valued file
Given to the common enemy of man,
His honour: O, thine honour, Lewis, thine honour!
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead,
In the brave squares of war: yet now--No matter.
O, then how quickly should this arm of mine.
beast! O strange! Every inordinate cup is
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
Spare for no faggots, let there be enow:
Whose vows are, that no bed-right shall be paid
How now, Mephostophilus!
Do what you can, yours will not be entreated.
Black night o'ershade thy day, and death thy life!
They said they were an-hungry, sigh'd forth proverbs,
In Saturninus' health, whom, if she sleep,
In every lineament, branch, shape, and form:
With all my heart I thank thee for my father!
Consider who the king your father sends,
I cannot be much lower than my knees.
Only for wantonness. By my christendom,
O, you give me ill counsel.
say, plucked down in the suburbs, and now she
Sir?
O,--vocativo, O.
Of female favour, and bestows himself
fantastical, too, too vain, too too vain: but we
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Pretty Ophelia!
Weaving spiders, come not here,
Cried 'O!' and mounted, found no opposition
are forgiven you, you're well to live. Gold! all gold!
They have au denied him.
He shall be executed presently.
Enter ULYSSES
Drawing him aside
Of wreakful heaven, whose bare unhoused trunks,
I will have nothing else but only this,
A fool go with thy soul, whither it goes!
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Into this sea of air.
The interim, by remembering you 'tis past.
Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice
With groans that thunder love, with sighs of fire.
More than your force move us to gentleness.
enterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to
And all good men of this ungovern'd isle.
Go to, a bargain made: seal it, seal it, I'll be the
Known and allied to yours.
Now He that made me knows I see thee ill,
That art thyself a man?
Faith, but you do, in my mind.
Worse than the scaring bell, when the brown wench
Come, swear to that, kiss the book: I will furnish
Were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold?
Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods
Why, he is very young: and yet will he, within
My body round engirt with misery,
And give as soft attachment to thy senses
O insupportable and touching loss!
That droops his sapless branches to the ground,
'Well!' why, I do so.
More than my brother: 'Ay,' quoth my uncle
I did not entertain thee as thou art.
Too much the rein: the strongest oaths are straw
Which I denying, they fell sick and died,
Why, courage then! what cannot be avoided
He seems indifferent,
Exit ANTONIO
'Fore God, his grace is bold, to trust these traitors.
Are you fair?
Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow.
I see your brows are full of discontent,
whatsoever he be. Who told you of this stranger?
Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander.
By this rude place we live in. Well encounter'd!
How shall I know if I do choose the right?
Why, beg, then.
Why, did you take her in green?
To praise my noble act, I hear him mock
Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
But thou preferr'st thy life before thine honour:
Why, no, for she hath broke the lute to me.
The king and his companions: warily
Contending with the fretful element:
Do curse the grace that with such grace hath bless'd them,
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
In lists, on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
And made me almost yield upon my knees.
Talk you of young Master Launcelot?
Thanks, Jupiter!
Here at the door, I pray you, call them in.
Exeunt in manner as they entered
Why have my sisters husbands, if they say
This in the public eye?
Even to the uttermost, as I please, in words.
Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
Am I one, sir?
What, a feast, a feast?
I would Poison that vile rascal.
coursers for cousins and gennets for germans.
Caesar, and companion me with my mistress.
Law cannot give my child his kingdom here,
And in these fits I leave them, while I visit
To take the one the other, by some chance,
Kate of Kate Hall, my super-dainty Kate,
Most noble sir,
heels and your heart both in an instant.
From this most bravest vessel of the world
And so may you, for a light heart lives long.
In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed
I pray now, keep below.
Your weeping sister is no wife of mine,
Making the green one red.
Then did they imitate that which I composed to my
Who, without those means thou talkest of, didst thou
Let me march on, and not offend your grace.
An if she do, I would I were an eunuch.
If!
are: make the trial of it in any constant question.
The citizens are mum and speak not a word.
were not Thersites, for I care not to be the louse
A rendezvous, a home to fly unto.
Of Arthur, who they say is kill'd to-night
Exit BARDOLPH
and shall, at the least of thy sweet notice, bring
I do protest I never heard of it,
That do converse and waste the time together,
He was indeed the duke, out o' the substitution
Did slay this Fortinbras, who by a seal'd compact,
Tug for the time to come. This you may know
are tasted, allow us as we prove, our head shall go
Titinius' face is upward.
What mean'st thou, Aaron? wherefore didst thou this?
Where is the best and safest passage in?
But, failing of her end by his strange absence,
In moral paradise of such sweet flesh?
Stand ranks of people, and they cry 'A sail!'
The king is set from London, and the scene
You and you are sure together,
Am I in France?
Talk not of dying: I am out of fear
When Antony found Julius Caesar dead,
To take the basest and most poorest shape
that her eyes ran o'er.
Now I do wish it, love it, long for it,
your voices,
And left them
And coughing drowns the parson's saw
To the unsatisfied.
Till it hath travell'd and is mirror'd there
And he hath promised to dismiss the powers
I will have more, or else unsay't, and now,
Will you prepare you for this masque tonight?
Why, the house you dwell in proclaims you to be a
His remedies are tame i' the present peace
Enter DIOMEDES, with CRESSIDA
As Humphrey, proved by reasons, to my liege.
like an impediment in the current, made it more
a measure, and a cinque pace: the first suit is hot
How have you made division of yourself?
Our doubtful hope, our convoy and our bark.
And whet not on these furious peers,
But none returns. For us to levy power
they never meet but there's a skirmish of wit
time in you?
To see some mischief on him. O!
Never any did so, though very many have been beside
That thus delays my promised supply
and keep him tame and get to Naples with him, he's a
'They have press'd a power, but it is not known
Madam, I will.
What is the matter, think you?
So doubly seconded with will and power,
SCENE V. Fields without the town.
Now Lord be thanked for my good amends!
four times. Now I, to comfort him, bid him a'
I will, my lord: God give your grace good rest!
Do not prove me so,
True, sir, she was the wife of Caius Marcellus.
I doubt he will be dead or ere I come.
Divided in their dire division,
our melancholy upon your head!
I would try, if I could cry 'hem' and have him.
Upon the bosom of the ground, rush forth,
Exeunt all but APEMANTUS and TIMON
My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
suddenly call you, come forth, and without any pause
'Tis honour with most lands to be at odds,
Exit
He met the duke in the street, sir, of whom he hath
He makes me angry with him, for he seems
for you all, you have horses for yourselves:
Marry, this it is, sir.
Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
And perform an old contracting.
From others' labours, for though he strive
The smallest worm will turn being trodden on,
Not worth the time of day. It pierced me through,
Why then,
Confined to exhibition! All this done
His promises fly so beyond his state
Thy crown does sear mine eye-balls. And thy hair,
Meanwhile, sir, with the little skill I have,
They cast their caps up and carouse together
done, let the law go whistle: I warrant you.
Hang them or stab them, drown them in a draught,
O, he is even in my mistress' case,
that is something stale and hoar ere it be spent.
O, my dear lord,--
The Anthropophagi and men whose heads
Kiss it, my warrior: he hath fought to-day
My studied purposes requite, which went
Keep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewell!
To show the world I am a gentleman.
And here I will expect thy coming.
For your physicians have expressly charged,
An argument that he is pluck'd, when hither
So I told him, my lord, and I said I heard your
He gave his honours to the world again,
This is strange. Who hath got the right Anne?
Re-enter BOULT, with the Pirates and MARINA
Love not such nights as these, the wrathful skies
Sweetly in force unto her fair life's end.
Our lack is nothing but our leave, Macbeth
man, I would have you think so, but, on my
The reformation of our travell'd gallants,
Pray heaven it be not full of knight again.
And those occasions, uncle, were of force:
Environ'd me about, and howled in mine ears
my daughter: but 'tis no matter, better a little
Villany, take your rapier.
'Tis from your sister.
Grown fear'd and tedious, yea, my gravity,
They are all in order and march toward us.
I  do pronounce him in that very shape
Sepulchring an adultress.
DON
Ere further leisure yield them further means
One side will mock another, the other too.
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
rather hear the tabour and the pipe: I have known
For single combat in convenient place,
Ah, when the means are gone that buy this praise,
Than this kind kiss. O Lord, that lends me life,
Command in Anjou what your honour pleases.
basket. Go up, I'll bring linen for him straight.
And will return to Venice. Hence, avaunt!
Thy honourable metal may be wrought
For thou art framed of the firm truth of valour.
Brother Antony,--
your monster, and the devil take your fingers!
As fancy values them, but with true prayers
At your service.
There's a good mother, boy, that blots thy father.
That keeps his leaves in spite of any storm,
Vile earth, to earth resign, end motion here,
A pox of wrinkles!
And take with you free power to ratify,
The Douglas is, and I beseech your grace
Nay, I have done.
signify to you that Fortune is blind, and she is
Enter DUKE OF YORK and DUCHESS OF YORK
Here, my good lord. What is't that moves your highness?
Meet I an infant of the house of York,
This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled.
corner-stone?
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Crowns what you are doing in the present deed,
Exeunt, severally
If she be so abandon'd to her sorrow
Devised impeachments to imprison him :
A diminution in our captain's brain
Are like invulnerable. If you could hurt,
And keep it safe for our remembrance:
Poor we may call them in their native lords.
ancients, corporals, lieutenants, gentlemen of
Leaving his wealth and ease,
Thou hast, Ventidius,
beard, or your French-crown-colour beard, your
Till now you have gone on and fill'd the time
O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.
Go, call our uncle to our presence straight,
It should be look'd to: come.
Should a like language use to all degrees
From off the rock Tarpeian never more
Ah, countrymen! if when you make your prayers,
Peace be with you!
Shall so wear out to nought. Dost thou know me?
By flattery hath he won the commons' hearts,
But, if thou be a king, where is thy crown?
Take thou no scorn to wear the horn,
And, which is more than all these boasts can be,
What think you of a duchess? have you limbs
To try the fair adventure of to-morrow.
Have I enjoy'd the golden dew of sleep,
As hell's from heaven! If it were now to die,
will beat into clamorous whining, if thou deniest
Thus much of this will make black white, foul fair,
Was nursed with Cleon, who at fourteen years
Of noble Richard! then true noblesse would
As manhood shall compound: push home.
Is it not more than shame to shame it so?
Of fantasy, of dreams and ceremonies:
As my great patron thought on in my prayers,--
Russian bear and have their heads crushed like
Bull-bearing Milo his addition yield
will you go, Mistress Page?
Of a night-brawler? give me answer to it.
But, come what may, I do adore thee so,
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
The law of friendship bids me to conceal,
Ne'er look'd but on my back, when they shall see
And to the strict'st decrees I'll write my name.
And take thy office from thee, on my peril.
I loved you ever: but it is no matter,
If it? please your honour, I know not well what they
so, if not, let him enter: if I become not a cart
I must away this night toward Padua,
But my arrival and my wife's in safety
[Within]  Francis!
If I could add a lie unto a fault,
That should applaud again.--Pull't off, I say.--
She can milk,' look you, a sweet virtue in a maid
Now thou art come unto a feast of death,
beggars were whipped, I would wish no better office
Pleading for a lover's fee.
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
not what to say. We will give you sleepy drinks,
Hoyday, a riddle! neither good nor bad!
Take the ear strangely.
Taste of it first, as thou art wont to do.
Crystal is muddy. O, how ripe in show
these are they. Thou art very Trinculo indeed! How
eye or so, but not to the purpose. Signior
The sacred storehouse of his predecessors,
My lord, there needs no such apology:
But they can see a sort of traitors here.
This is some fellow,
Who is as free from touch or soil with her
For he is but a bastard to the time
It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from
Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius?
Will not confess he owes the malady
I do desire thy worthy company,
With my request, which I make bold your highness
rehearse, though credit be asleep and not an ear
with you, drink with you, nor pray with you. What
We have always truly served you, and beseech you
He tells you rightly.
I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest
Who's yonder,
What is't o'clock?
constable?
When holy and devout religious men
I to my grave, where peace and rest lie with me!
Weeping before for what she saw must come,
How lesser enmities may give way to greater.
Are my chests fill'd up with extorted gold?
chapped hands and threw up their sweaty night-caps
married to-morrow, you shall, and to Rosalind, if you will.
Let me but meet you, ladies, one hour hence,
The insolence of office and the spurns
It were fit you knew him, lest, reposing too far in
His rigorous course, but since he stands obdurate
Commanded always by the greater gust,
What is that?
And once again cry 'Charge upon our foes!'
Like perspectives, which rightly gazed upon
And have their palates both for sweet and sour,
Now, by my George, my garter, and my crown,--
I have too few to take my leave of you,
Being with his presence glutted, gorged and full.
Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me:
Is, that by sudden floods and fall of waters,
O melancholy!
my mistress: I think I saw your wisdom there.
Dat is as it sall please de roi mon pere.
They swell, and grow as terrible as storms.
Like holy Phoebus' car. Give me thy hand:
And yours it is against.
Tell me truly.
Invites me in this churlish messenger.
There's none but witches do inhabit here,
Nor shall not, while I have a stump.
How dearly would it touch me to the quick,
I'll frush it and unlock the rivets all,
And talking of the Alps and Apennines,
there, and you too, but my powers are there already.
So,
Deceive more slily than Ulysses could,
Would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow,
Who, being suffer'd with the bear's fell paw,
From whence this present day he is deliver'd?
My tongue to such a pace:--'Look, sir, my wounds!
Let go my hand.
Set in a note-book, learn'd, and conn'd by rote,
And, touched with choler, hot as gunpowder,
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly.
I am as woful as Virginius was,
For confirmation that I am much more
O, he sends you for a picture.
And in this mist at all adventures go.
Chirrah!
I thank you, good friend Lucio.
Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
You may imagine him upon Blackheath,
I shall never begin if I hold my peace.
To see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome:
good wine in thy master's way.
Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except.
Hath she had any more than one husband?
But I much marvel that your lordship, having
his first approach before my lady: he will come to
Against all rules of nature, and must be driven
To thine own lips again.
how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers
That kitchen'd me for you to-day at dinner:
Yes, my lord.
Were half to half the world by the ears and he.
So by my former lecture and advice,
I wish it grubb'd up now.
of most allowed sufficiency, yet opinion, a
Thou shouldst be colour'd thus. You married ones,
Here's Romeo's man, we found him in the churchyard.
She hath no tongue to call, nor hands to wash,
me for ever be your table-sport, let them say of
Their royal blood enchafed, as the rudest wind,
Rich scarf to my proud earth, why hath thy queen
I cry you mercy, uncle. By your grace's pardon.
sixpence a day: an the duke had not given him
The state of man in divers functions,
Till time had made them for us. But it chances
to Canterbury with rich offerings, and traders
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
Love hath chased sleep from my enthralled eyes
My lords ambassadors, your several suits
If this prove
They say, my lords, 'ira furor brevis est,' but yond
I here resign my government to thee,
Borne with the invisible and creeping wind,
Can you not see? or will ye not observe
Then fools you were these women to forswear,
I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
Les dames et demoiselles pour etre baisees devant
the jealous knave their master in the door, who
An you'll come to supper to-night, you may, an you
Now is Mortimer lord of this city. And here, sitting
Amaze the welkin with your broken staves!
Whilst the heavy ploughman snores,
And put it in his pocket!
As man and wife, being two, are one in love,
A Judas!
should thunder as it did before, I know not
He prettily and aptly taunts himself:
Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? an
Nor with such free and friendly conference,
Round even to faultiness.
Yes, worthy sir,
You sulphurous and thought-executing fires,
Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,
Our woes into the air, our eyes do weep,
perfect image of life indeed. The better part of
All little jealousies, which now seem great,
Men, wives and children stare, cry out and run
He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.
Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait
Both they and we, perusing o'er these notes,
What, John! What, Robert!
Not a mouse stirring.
Art thou not ashamed? But, sirrah, henceforth
I wish your horses swift and sure of foot,
For ever will I walk upon my knees,
Means he not us? I partly know him: 'tis
As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd
BISHOP
And will not promise her to any man
And I the matter will re-word, which madness
That souls of animals infuse themselves
Brother, good day, what means this armed guard
Surprise me to the very brink of tears:
And I, of whom his eyes had seen the proof
A comfortable doctrine, and much may be said of it.
Or, guilty in defence, be thus destroy'd?
More active-valiant or more valiant-young,
About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring
And York as fast upon your grace exclaims,
Enter CHARLES and JOAN LA PUCELLE
Under the blossom that hangs on the bough.
To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm,
all!
About his funeral: and you shall speak
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true, she
Reveal how thou at sea didst lose thy wife:
Constrain'd to watch in darkness, rain and cold.
My lord, you take us even at the best.
Of such an ungrown warrior.
Whose heir my father was, and I am his.
O, when the last account 'twixt heaven and earth
The imperious churchman, Somerset, Buckingham,
Like to an enter'd tide, they all rush by
Against the blown rose may they stop their nose
The rest is labour, which is not used for you:
Heigh-ho! sing,  and c.
Go, I'll to dinner: hie you to the cell.
Pray you, undo this button: thank you, sir.
Most willing, madam.
And with hot irons must I burn them out.
And so am I for Phebe.
Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford?
As well as speak--it tauntingly replied
If thou hadst said him nay, it had been sin:
If it be so,
And therein negligent, or else a fool
You that will follow me to this attempt,
My voice is in my sword: thou bloodier villain
When that a ring of Greeks have hemm'd thee in,
Exit
One business does command us all, for mine Is money.
Enter BAPTISTA, KATHARINA, BIANCA, GREMIO, and HORTENSIO. LUCENTIO and TRANIO stand by
Cries 'This is he,' could promise to himself
The importancy of Cyprus to the Turk,
From France to England. Never such a power
For this alliance may so happy prove,
with me last night, who, if alive and ever dare to
Exeunt
musty room, comes me the prince and Claudio, hand
And seize himself, I say not, slaughter him,
No sooner justice had with valour arm'd
To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding-day.
In self-same manner doth accuse my husband,
Will not your honours bear me company?
And sear up my embracements from a next
Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
Re-enter some of the Watch, with BALTHASAR
Was mutually committed?
Claudio shall render me a dear account. As you
The most you sought was her promotion,
Reposing on a cushion.
For pale they look with fear, as witnessing
mouths, sir.'
counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never
Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven,
Exeunt
Shall be eternized in all age to come.
Lips, let sour words go by and language end:
To reinforcement, or we perish all.
come to such penury?
To bid the father wipe his eyes withal,
punishment, by thy sweet grace's officer, Anthony
have answered to his reputation with the duke and to
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
The bearer knows not, but commends itself
Even at that news he dies, and then the hearts
the bear half dined on the gentleman: he's at it
Now, sir, hast thou cried her through the market?
As frowning at the favours of the world?
Why, there thou hast it: two deep enemies,
Farewell.
What! we have many goodly days to see:
that the duchies of Anjou and Maine shall be
opinion, and that opinion a mere profit.
Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.
Let him be ransom'd: never master had
endeavour be so loved and the performance so loathed?
But let the world rank me in register
Exit RODERIGO
For you have seen him open't. Read o'er this,
Lieutenant, is it you whose voice I hear?
Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
Who, in his circumstance, expressly proves
What means that hand upon that breast of thine?
SCENE I. The coast of Kent.
she can knit him a stock?
Who calls?
For I am nothing, if not critical.
Or do you almost think, although you see,
That promises moe thousands: honour's train
How angel-like he sings!
By wasting ruin of the cruel foe.
Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
This is a poor epitome of yours,
As princes do their courts, when they are cloy'd
What says my brother?
Ay, ay, farewell.
I am the provost. What's your will, good friar?
You pity not the state, nor the remembrance
That were a kind of bastard hope, indeed: so the
Will not have earth to know.
Upon her wit doth earthly honour wait,
When remedies are past, the griefs are ended
Now, now: I have not winked since I saw these
Was it well done of rash Virginius
That would be howl'd out in the desert air,
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have
Am I not stay'd for? tell me.
Her peerless feature, joined with her birth,
Convert his gyves to graces, so that my arrows,
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
Come hither, come! come, come, and take a queen
And, in a word, for far behind his worth
As Socrates' Xanthippe, or a worse,
With this strict charge, even as he left his life,
To the court of guard, he is of note: our hour
his true likeness.
I would you would make use of that good wisdom,
Now, my dearest queen,--
Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace!
Give me leave. Here lies the water, good: here
To the tent-royal of their emperor,
I pray you.
That very hour, and in the self-same inn,
Exit
possessed with a fury, exceeds her as much in beauty
it is no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and fun
Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself,
Some touch of your late business: affairs, that walk,
Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know
As he had lost some province and a region
Than on a wretch whom nature is ashamed
If lost, why then a grievous labour won,
Am I to you.
Great cause to give great thanks.
Exeunt
Upon the right and party of her son?
SCENE II. The DUKE OF LANCASTER'S palace.
but from proof as strong as my grief and as certain
What is Dictynna?
That both mine eyes were rainy like to his :
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight? Shall
No, Paris is not, for you know 'tis true,
Pembroke, look to 't. Farewell, Chatillon.
Aside
And saved the treacherous labour of your son.
these strip you out of your lieutenantry, it had
But when ye have the honey ye desire,
If ever any grudge were lodged between us,
Taking him apart
'Tis not a time
ARIEL sings and helps to attire him
Now the number is even.
Why, all the boys in Venice follow him,
Exit CALIBAN
Re-enter Provost
They fell before thee like sheep and oxen, and thou
Grossly grew captive to his honey words
The times and titles now are alter'd strangely
And I mine.
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
Thou foolish friar, and thou pernicious woman,
In whom already he's well graced, can not
That they may crush down with a heavy fall
There will I stay for thee.
Here is like to be a good presence of Worthies. He
You put our page out: go, you are allow'd,
Francis Flute, the bellows-mender.
Take with you your companions, as you look
Would be unparallel'd.
But with as humble lowliness of mind
Is it? I will then address me to my appointment.
With maids to seem the lapwing and to jest,
By this light, a most perfidious and drunken
As you malign our senators for that
And death's dishonourable victory
Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,
My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's,
Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
In rage dismiss'd my father from the court,
After these ways, so, it will make us mad.
Poins! Poins, and be hanged! Poins!
To him that flourish'd for her with his sword
Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short,
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
To me she's married, not unto my clothes:
I am too sure of it: and it is for getting Madam
Resume that spirit, when you were wont to say,
Through all the world bears Rosalind.
Even to the utmost grain: that you shall read
some reservation of your wrongs: he is my good
If thou hadst drunk to him, 't had been a kindness
Was ever Scythia half so barbarous?
Bid her have good heart:
When Hector's grandsire suck'd: he is old now,
bound for England, if your name be Horatio, as I am
Not yet, my cousin: we would be resolved,
Why, wilt thou tourney for the lady?
With that dread King that took our state upon him
This shall determine that.
owest the worm no silk, the beast no hide, the sheep
CANIDIUS marcheth with his land army one way over  the stage, and TAURUS, the lieutenant of OCTAVIUS  CAESAR, the other way. After their going in, is heard the noise of a sea-fight
The napless vesture of humility,
Which sleeps, and never palates more the dug,
Are landed on your coast, with a supply
worm's an odd worm.
I'll not be struck, my lord.
Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
Exeunt
Marry, presently.
My lord, a prize, a prize! here's the Lord Say,
Nay, rather, good my lords, be second to me:
Though other things grow fair against the sun,
I would I were thy bird.
and 'no' to every thing that I said!--'Ay' and 'no'
And do a wilful stillness entertain,
Wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy?
Nor God, nor I, delights in perjured men.
Finish, good lady, the bright day is done,
That Richard be restored to his blood.
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.
I know not how I shall assure you further,
At war 'twixt will and will not.
He lives that loves thee better than he could.
Than did the fault before it was so patch'd.
And good reason, for thereby is England mained, and
SIR NATHANIEL retires
Did whisper often very secretly.
Though the great bulk Achilles be thy guard,
To miseries enough, no hope to help you,
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
Troilus, you shall see anon.
Sweet queen, sweet queen! that's a sweet queen, i' faith.
As good cause as one would desire, therefore weep.
Will't please your honour taste of these conserves?
A sceptre shall it have, have I a soul,
That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh
cushion, or to be entombed in an ass's pack-
For Clarence is well-spoken, and perhaps
Whose roof's as low as ours! Stoop, boys, this gate
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
O, by your leave, I pray you,
And make the babbling gossip of the air
To camp this host, we all would sup together,
In passion shook.
I cannot find those runagates, that villain
were more than they can commend.
And Gabriel's pumps were all unpink'd i' the heel,
They are not such as you.
In the old time of war, would shake the press,
Call'd for the truce of Winchester and Gloucester,
Aside to CARDINAL
Into an hour-glass: for the which supply,
For yet his honour never heard a play--
Your oath is pass'd to pass away from these.
This growing image of thy fiend-like face?
Foul is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer.
Seem'd to die too, yea, at that very moment
More of thee merited than a band of Clotens
I must prevent thee, Cimber.
Alarum continues
monument of the victory will I bear,
And you withal shall make all Gallia shake.
Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
that your younger brother Orlando hath a disposition
The hopeless word of 'never to return'
An inviting eye, and yet methinks right modest.
This bottle makes an angel.
the wonder of it, came missives from the king, who
'I may command where I adore.' Why, she may command
Are his wits safe? is he not light of brain?
And let us in, your king, whose labour'd spirits,
Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come.
Opposing laws with strokes and here defying
SCENE I. Padua. A room in BAPTISTA'S house.
Ay, my good son.
Ah, wherefore dost thou urge the name of hands,
Exit
That as it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes,
It fits thee not to ask the reason why,
shalt hear, 'tis in three parts.
Hardly one subject.
O heaven! were man
never nurse her child herself, for she will breed
I pray thee, stay a while: I hope my holy humour
If you contend, a thousand lives must wither.
And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.
Paints itself black, to imitate her brow.
greater soldier.
If you have stomach, the general state, I fear,
I do it not in evil disposition,
She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where
I will say so.
'Tis wonder that thy life and wits at once
As I intend to thrive in this new world,
What think'st thou of the rich Mercatio?
Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
That is the chain, sir, which you had of me.
His grandam's wrongs, and not his mother's shames,
Were lovers too! Ill, to example ill,
But 'gainst your privacy
'Tis so, and that self chain about his neck
I do not doubt thy faith,
Ay, mistress bride, hath that awaken'd you?
Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds,
Became a bricklayer when he came to age:
Who, earnest in the service of my God,
Therefore, Caveto be thy counsellor.
That fed him with his prophecies?
She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry,
Before the people all,
When fame shall in our islands sound her trump,
Jove send her
thee, hind!
She would not lose it: her attendants are
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?
die.
To spread his colours, boy, in thy behalf,
For in my gallery thy picture hangs:
To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
Were but the outside of the Roman Brutus,
Away with him! Who hath made this havoc with them?
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
First, an it like you, the house is a respected
And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
So good as you have done.
That is to see how deep my grave is made,
And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds,
Let him to field, Troilus, alas! hath none.
Are worse than devils.
And wear a golden sorrow.
No reason I, since of your lives you set
Like egg-shells moved upon their surges, crack'd
This news hath made thee a most ugly man.
To draw him from his holy exercise.
A workman in't.
Yes, a dozen, and as many to the vantage as would
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall:
And Rice ap Thomas with a valiant crew,
Having God, her conscience, and these bars
Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed,
France together: why the devil should we keep
RICHARD
Came post with post, and every one did bear
Men should be what they seem,
When our quick minds lie still, and our ills told us
I shall discover all: I'll bring thee word
I'll prove this truth with my three drops of blood.
Come, come, you are a fool
Would create soldiers, make our women fight,
She creeps:
Of none but such as you, and you of Timon.
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Then that you have sent innumerable substance--
I must obey.
Edge, sting, or operation, I am safe:
That marks thee out for hell: I say, thou liest,
I'll tell thee as we pass, but this I pray,
that I love passing well.
With that same weak wind which enkindled it.
When possibly I can, I will return.
At large discourse, while here they do remain.
Exit DERCETAS
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
Fly o'er them, all impatient for their hour.
I have inly wept,
In your retirement, I had swinged him soundly.
Your graces find me here part of a housewife,
Think you so?
A flourish with drums and trumpets. Exeunt
If you do sweat to put a tyrant down,
Let all my sins lack mercy! O my father,
Thou dost approve thyself the very same:
be looked against. Now, could I could come to her
Arm, arm, you heavens, against these perjured kings!
word. I will rather leave to see Hector, than
And make your peace with Caesar.
Courageous Bedford, let us now persuade you.
Else shall you not have any hand at all
SCENE VI. Another room in the castle.
To bring bad news: give to a gracious message.
Exit BRUTUS
To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
Hie you to church, I must another way,
My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
Scars to move laughter only.
Then, prithee, get thee gone: if, for my sake,
The penance lies on you, if these fair ladies
And brought with armed men back to Messina.
In any staining act.
court. You told me you salute not at the court, but
And have install'd me in the diadem:
If we without his help can make a head
me other than Lord Mortimer.
here, Cassio,
To set the crown once more on Henry's head:
Do through the clouds behold this present hour,
That ever Timon was. Shame not these woods,
But art thou not advised, he took some care
O, no, my nephew must not know, Sir Richard,
Always excepted my dear Claudio.
I am, and by my fancy: if my reason
How now, fair lords! What fare? what news abroad?
sound retreat or parley, when I command them kill?
Whose spirits toil in frame of villanies.
For loving where you do: but if yourself,
The rod, and bird of peace, and all such emblems
Was to send him, for whose old love I have,
Remember, boys, I pour'd forth tears in vain,
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
To bear his image and renew his glories!
No, faith, proud mistress, hope not after it:
Shall, with my cousin, your right-noble son,
You chide at him, offending twice as much,
If she in chains of magic were not bound,
To woo a maid in way of marriage: Lastly,
To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
Nor wish'd to hold my peace.
To take her in her heart's extremest hate,
If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourself
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
I do present you with a man of mine,
Stay yet, hear reason. Edmund, I arrest thee
with no more advantage than the opportunity of a
That down fell both the Ram's horns in the court,
So far I read aloud:
That is removed by a staff of France,
When I was dry with rage and extreme toil,
But you say she's honest.
To wear a kerchief! Would you were not sick!
Stand, stand! We have the advantage of the ground,
'Tis known already that I am possess'd
Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine,
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
Of Murray, Angus, and Menteith:
Till noon! till night, my lord, and all night too.
For valour, is not Love a Hercules,
O, ho! do you come near me now? no worse man than
To gaze upon a ruinous monastery,
Pray God we may make haste, and come too late!
And him to Pomfret, where, as all you know,
I doubt not, uncle, of our victory.
I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
And stay your coming to present themselves.
And reap the harvest which that rascal sow'd,
Sir Valentine!
Such wind as scatters young men through the world,
A stone is silent, and offendeth not,
He thinks, nay, with all confidence he swears,
I'll find some cunning practise out of hand,
As she is mine, I may dispose of her:
Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower
becomes him,--
Ye favourites of a king: are we not high?
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind,
for the which you are to do me both a present and a
Your grant, or your denial, shall be mine:
'Faith, yes, to be put to the arbitrement of swords,
The duke is virtuous, mild and too well given
A very fresh-fish here--fie, fie, fie upon
Thy favour's good enough. Some jay of Italy
I durst not!
Sooth, madam, I hear nothing.
Pray, sit, more welcome are ye to my fortunes
Lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death,
What have we to do with Diana? Pray you, will you go with us?
Which, I dare vouch, is more than that he hath,
If she, my liege, can make me know this clearly,
Against my lord the Duke of Somerset.
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
Truly, sir, all that I live by is with the awl: I
Good morrow, gallants! want ye corn for bread?
Like empty purses pick'd, and his poor self,
But must my sons be slaughter'd in the streets,
Richard!
Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
And gem of all the nation.
Mortal revenge upon these traitorous Goths,
Poictiers and Anjou, these five provinces,
If ever I return to you again,
As I have set them down. If I do send, dispatch
To make your house our Tower: you a brother of us,
Where they shall know our mind: away!
Hath a sharp edge: it's long and, 't may be said,
Gazing on that which seems to dim thy sight?
No, sir, it is legs and thighs. Let me see the
If well, he stepp'd before me, happily
Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,
Drum beats
loss at sea or no?
that I can drink with any tinker in his own language
Tut, I have work enough for you to do.
By gar, I see 'tis an honest woman.
was begot between two stock-fishes. But it is
window, for all this, There will come a Christian
Not black in my mind, though yellow in my legs. It
Prepare there,
Enter LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HERMIA, and HELENA
More than was ever man's, I would not prize them
Finds the down pillow hard. Now peace be here,
As were a war in expectation.
And so do I too, lieutenant.
A fine woman! a fair woman! a sweet woman!
A hundred, if they'll do you any good.
Nor are you therein, by my life, deceived,
Let this my sword report what speech forbears.
Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:
That go or tarry.
As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
In fair Bohemia, and remember well,
Must not be toss'd and turn'd to me in words,
Of the Cinque-ports.
And there cut off thy most ungracious head,
And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
My sovereign liege, no letters, and few words,
So you must be the first that gives this sentence,
saw you last that, I fear me, will never out of
SCENE II. The same. Plains near Angiers.
limits of order.
To the people, not by your own instruction,
No natural exhalation in the sky,
This is the ape of form, monsieur the nice,
Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light.
We have some haste, Leonato.
Rode on his tide. Go tell him this, and add,
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
PROLOGUE
I do not misdoubt my wife, but I would be loath to
Cry 'God save Richard, England's royal king!'
Then music with her silver sound'--
Exeunt
No wonder, sir,
I would to heaven he were!
My lord, look here: look here, Lavinia:
Lest she should be denied.
A very even way, but no such friend.
Hark! the trumpets.
My mother was the daughter of a king,
I do applaud thy spirit, Valentine,
Mark how he bears his course, and runs me up
On Fortinbras, which he, in brief, obeys,
and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear
And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful!
He is drunk now: where had he wine?
Come here about me, you my Myrmidons,
through Frogmore: I will bring thee where Mistress
The purpose is perspicuous even as substance,
Tongue far from heart--play with all virgins so:
O, that your face were not so full of O's!
Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd,
With torch-staves in their hand, and their poor jades
Neighbours, you are tedious.
Unto a lineal true-derived course.
adornment of my qualities. With that suit upon my
And am I then a man to be beloved?
Expect your highness' doom of life or death.
you three will but minister such assistance as I
Might I a son and daughter now have look'd on,
On the complaint o' the tenants: take good heed
[Aside]  If not, I'll ne'er trust medicine.
And by his side his fruit of bastardy.
That make ingrateful man!
Having once this juice,
Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
argument, Achilles.
No.
And go with you.
Marry, thou oughtest not to let thy horse wear a
Madam, withdraw: the prince, the count, Signior
Which when you part from, lose, or give away,
Thee they may hurt.
And why not as the lion?
I'll make the statue move indeed, descend
Above all princes, in committing freely
See, she will speak to him.
Thy sacred physic shall receive such pay
Seem they in motion? Here are sever'd lips,
And for I know she taketh most delight
That makes the world full of ill-favour'd children:
Enter ANGELO
Being strong on both sides, are equivocal:
Re-enter WHITMORE with SUFFOLK's body
'Tis common:
spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower? Art thou
A thousand times in secret.
Great thing of us forgot!
In music, instruments and poetry,
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate,
Into a madman's rags, to assume a semblance
Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower,
Arise, arise.
Padua affords nothing but what is kind.
And, for this night, we'll fast for company:
Here is a warrant from
for a hen! So, my good window of lattice, fare thee
A monk o' the Chartreux.
And came to the eye o' the king: wherein was read,
That I advise your shunning.
nor no in luck stirring but what lights on my
Quis, quis, thou consonant?
A bird that will revenge upon you all:
What, shall we stab him as he sleeps?
Beats the keeper
I cannot conceive you.
And brief, good mother, for I am in haste.
That he can hither come so soon,
Blotting your names from books of memory,
This is in thee a nature but infected,
show you, which shall be yours in private. Your
A mighty man of Pisa, by report
for any lady in Britain. If she went before others
And buzz lamenting doings in the air!
As how I came into that desert place:--
Is apoplex'd, for madness would not err,
The mortal gate of the city, which he painted
that's coming toward him.
With those that have offended: like a shepherd,
To find persistive constancy in men:
What, have you met with her?
And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
Till Pericles be dead,
My marvel and my message. To your court
When went there by an age, since the great flood,
'Twas very faintly he said 'Rise,' dismiss'd me
What Venus did with Mars.
I then moved you,
With such a kind of love as might become
The innocent milk in its most innocent mouth,
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
Were it not better,
When will this fearful slumber have an end?
burthen and how she longed to eat adders' heads and
And, seeking death, find life: let it come on.
The heads of the maids?
And dull to all proceedings. A deflower'd maid!
My resolution's placed, and I have nothing
ACT V
I gave him gentle looks, thereby to find
I must be ripp'd:--to pieces with me!--O,
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
Pythagoras' time, that I was an Irish rat, which I
And lastly, to confirm that amity
These fishers tell the infirmities of men,
When time hath sow'd a grizzle on thy case?
Though we seemed dead, we did but sleep: advantage
Forthwith we'll send him hence to Brittany,
That would upon the rack of this tough world
Than have seen this.
And send them after to supply our wants,
A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,
[Reads]
No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess,
See, your guests approach:
Remaining now in Gallia?
Equality of two domestic powers
fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that
knock and call, hell speak like an Anthropophaginian
A mark! O, mark but that mark! A mark, says my lady!
That's good too: but what needs either your 'mum'
Uneath may she endure the flinty streets,
sighing and grief! it blows a man up like a
I'll bring him to you.
What wilt thou do?
A ring, stand round.
How near's the other army?
Nor build their evils on the graves of great men,
Not resolute, except so much were done,
water against a gentlewoman's farthingale? didst
That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.
knew not what to take and what to leave, ha?
take vantages.
Have in our armours watch'd the winter's night,
Come as the gods foresay it: howsoe'er,
Wherefore my father should revengers want,
How now, my lady the hostess! what sayest thou to
To save my boy, to nourish and bring him up,
For God he knows, and you may partly see,
Than you much willing to be counted wise
Confesses that she secretly o'erheard
For it engenders choler, planteth anger,
And drown themselves in riot! Itches, blains,
not the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not
Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in:
way, old Windsor way, and every way but the town
Exit
flatter me that thou dost, notwithstanding the poor
Up to the ears in blood. I am on fire
Never believe me. Both are my kinsmen:
What, like a corse?
Give me thy hand.
Exeunt
And now no more ado, brave Burgundy,
A witch, a quean, an old cozening quean! Have I not
Good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother.
Didst thou dream, Lucius, that thou so criedst out?
My grandam told me he was murdered there.
Enter KING JOHN, PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and other Lords
Her children not her husband's!
Find what thou want'st by free and offer'd light. Come.
Whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
Enter YORK
Sweet prince, why speak not you?
To LUCIO
The inhospitable Cleon, but I am
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
Some poison'd by their wives: some sleeping kill'd,
Music, ho! music, such as charmeth sleep!
Arthur of Bretagne England's king and yours.
And simpler than the infancy of truth.
Does of the shepherds: for his best friends, if they
By this white glove,--how white the hand, God knows!--
That head, my lord?
To be your servant.
And with presented nakedness out-face
Forswear not thyself, sweet youth, for I am not
Shout within
displeasure of the king, who had even tuned his
That brings me food to make misfortune live?
That their negotiations all must slack,
What should we say, my lord?
Ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right.
I know not why, except to get the land.
As if you were a feasted one and not
Were harbour'd in their rude circumference.
knaves come to do that for me which I am aweary of.
His accusations.
He's sentenced, no more hearing.
Enter SOMERSET, with his army, a Captain of TALBOT's with him
A stranger to thy thoughts.
By heaven, it shall not go!
I am to find you thus: I have been to seek you.
Nature's, who perceiveth our natural wits too dull
Before his chaps be stain'd with crimson blood,
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
Within a loathsome dungeon, there to pine,
Be valued against your wife's commandment.
remember thy courtesy, I beseech thee, apparel thy
Lorenzo, I commit into your hands
Enter TITUS, bearing arrows with letters at the  ends of them, with him, MARCUS, Young LUCIUS,  PUBLIUS, SEMPRONIUS, CAIUS, and other Gentlemen, with bows
You elements that clip us round about,
Of an unthrifty knave, and presently
To sleep by hate, and fear no enmity?
For so run the conditions, leave those remnants
Then, England's ground, farewell, sweet soil, adieu,
I'll be sworn,
How is't with you, my lord
But thorough lust and laughter. Pity's sleeping:
Gentles, perchance you wonder at this show,
Unto our brother France, and to our sister,
French thrift, you rogues, myself and skirted page.
If I had thought the sight of my poor image
And, like a forester, the groves may tread,
I know not. If they speak but truth of her,
as she is and without any danger.
Exit SIMPLE
She must lie here on mere necessity.
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
For this popp'd Paris in his hardiment,
Though it be honest, it is never good
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
hereafter, I pray you, mock at 'em, that is all.
The elder of them, being put to nurse,
For, if she be not honest, chaste, and true,
It's true, good lieutenant.
Who shuns not to break one will sure crack both:
You taught me how to know the face of right,
It pleaseth me so well, that I will see you wed,
'Tis very strange.
What says my sweet queen, my very very sweet queen?
Unto a youthful gentleman of worth,
Which is one?
For she is sweeter than perfume itself
Assumed this age, indeed a banish'd man,
Was innocence for innocence, we knew not
As far as I could ken thy chalky cliffs,
Most sincerely.
Should chase us with my father, power no jot
station, here's no place for you, pray you, avoid: come.
Let him alone,
Of hurlyburly innovation:
Sir, as concerning some entertainment of time, some
graves. Find out this villain, Edmund, it shall
'Twould prove the verity of certain words
As punishment for his most wicked life.
And on your eyelids crown the god of sleep.
For, as I think, they do command him home,
Exeunt MARIA and Attendants
base for a soldier to love, so am I in love with a
Could never plant in me.
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Lies foul with chew'd grass, still and motionless,
Those we profess, peace-makers, friends, and servants.
never buy and sell out of this word.
I would have him nine years a-killing.
Which throes thee much to yield.
Here didst thou fall, and here thy hunters stand,
Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her, and her
That nothing do but meditate on blood,--
I will, my Hermia.
another, his wife another, and, I think, there's one
ACT III
No, misery makes sport to mock itself:
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
I am almost mad myself: I had a son,
As in your royal speech.
How now, Trojan!
To have him suddenly convey'd away.
Which I would free, if I shall be condemn'd
And send him many years of sunshine days!
him on, and it takes him off, it persuades him,
He is walked up to the top of the hill: I'll go seek him.
It is a kind of history.
You'll mar the light by taking it in snuff,
She adds, moreover, that you should put your lord
Hear me, my masters, and my common friends,--
she was quartered. They fell on, I made good my
That I might love thee something.
Hail, Rome, victorious in thy mourning weeds!
That dost in vile misprision shackle up
I will not sing.
If she were by, to hear you make the offer.
To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse
Thou disputest like an infant: go, whip thy gig.
Exeunt
Ten years are spent since first he undertook
Kneeling before this ruin of sweet life,
Dost thou think I have no sense, thou strikest me thus?
The news is very fair and good, my lord:
Art thou not sorry for these heinous deeds?
him with a talent.
his dagger.
Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
And thou that smiledst at good Duke Humphrey's death,
There's not a god left unsolicited.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence,
We were to question further: but I now
Come, offer at my shrine, and I will help thee.'
Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces,
Grant me the combat, gracious sovereign.
Have leave and leisure to make love to her
So season'd with your faithful love to me.
To hang clogs on them. I have done, my lord.
Who is 't can read a woman? Is there more?
Are grown so catching.
O, 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine.
We shall remain in friendship, our conditions
As houses are defiled for want of use,
No, on my life.
For goodness' sake, consider what you do,
And this is he that did the Tiger board,
Believe me, sir, had I such venture forth,
Well, now.
But, thieves, unworthy of a thing so stol'n,
Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
And partly, seeing you are beautified
I have a little yet to say. Look there, my lords,
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown!
No settled senses of the world can match
What raging of the sea! shaking of earth!
I dare be sworn I think that he is honest.
This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
The affliction nor the fear.
That I have  fined these bones of mine for ransom?
Not to seem senseless of the bob: if not,
Have laid most heavy hand.
After my death I wish no other herald,
Well, let's away, and say how much is done.
HECTOR falls
And proofs as clear as founts in July when
Lest I might anger thee.
To tell my story.
And then it started like a guilty thing
Come on, then,
Lonely, apart. But here it is: prepare
That moved pale Cassius to conspire, and what
I like that well: nay, how absolute she's in't,
their brains! that we should, with joy, pleasance
Yes, and his ill conditions, and, in despite of
Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound
Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
Is wasteful and ridiculous excess.
My lord, there are certain nobles of the senate
No, lady.
Whose duty is deceiveable and false.
The king, the king!
thou art king? and resolution thus fobbed as it is
Of Canterbury, from that holy see?
And champion me to the utterance! Who's there!
No wars without doors: Caesar gets money where
these four threes of herdsmen.
My lord, will you be true?
All the occurrences, whatever chanced,
From famous Edmund Langley, Duke of York,
To bring me to him?
That every day with parle encounter me,
PROLOGUE
That such a keech can with his very bulk
For every drop of blood was drawn from him,
Marry, sir, with needle and thread.
Marry, sir, the letter, very orderly, having nothing
This love of theirs myself have often seen,
Exit
But I'll unto his majesty, and crave
The very thought of this fair company
And here is writ 'love-wounded Proteus.'
I could not miss my way: will poor folks lie,
fain be about the ears of the English.
For these domestic and particular broils
Who's this? O God! it is my father's face,
It is familiar,--but at the author's drift,
He sent me hither, stranger as I am,
And in assemblies too.
But let concealment, like a worm i' the bud,
What's this, Comelius?
I told you. Lord Angelo, belike thinking me remiss
But weary for the staleness.
To one so meek, that mine own servant should
See, Buckingham, Somerset comes with the queen:
Best fitteth my degree or your condition
And so will I.
Hide not thy poison with such sugar'd words,
You, sirrah, that knew me for a fool, a coward,
Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so,
I'll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o' the
Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.
Upon my life, then, you took the wrong.
that dwells with him, dwell with him or no?
Enter CORNWALL and EDMUND
With slaughter's pencil, where revenge did paint
O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
Wherein thou art less happy being fear'd
Not fearing the displeasure of your master,
Hail to you both!
Let not the heavens hear these tell-tale women
And makest conjectural fears to come into me
A good note, that keeps you from the blow of the law.
Ay, to a niggardly host, and more sparing guest:
What follows if we disallow of this?
tempered as mine is to thee.
The edge of that day's celebration
Carthage?
I came into the world with my legs forward:
Of Launcelot, an't please your mastership.
liars, and adulterers, by an enforced obedience of
I'll make it greater ere I part from thee,
Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot
With mine officer!
God grant him health! Did you confer with him?
Say you so? Fair lord,--
Marry, now I can tell.
unto you again, you are a shallow cowardly hind, and
Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy,
But tell not me, I know, Antonio
Caesar said to me 'Darest thou, Cassius, now
Envenoms him that bears it!
To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts,
endeavours, for then we wound our modesty and make
Yet he most Christian-like laments his death:
Came then into my mind, and yet my mind
Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty:
He should not humour me. I will this night,
With any passion of inflaming love,
Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box,
[Aside]  And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
Our puissance into the hand of God,
to second your attempt, and he shall fall between
There's nothing differs but the outward fame.
Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello,
My heart to her but as guest-wise sojourn'd,
What, have his daughters brought him to this pass?
He's not confirm'd, we may deny him yet.
Myself have calm'd their spleenful mutiny,
To see these Grecian lords!--why, even already
[Rising]  O, she was foul!
Adding withal how blest this land would be
Enter NORFOLK
For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too!
Knocking within
Sir Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland,
And I seeing this came thence for very shame,
In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts:
I had rather than forty shillings I had my Book of
The thick sighs from him, whiles the jolly Briton--
For I have heard him say a thousand times
O, answer not, but to my closet bring
What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly,
Discover how, and thou shalt find me just.
He could never come better, he shall come in. I
I am with both: each army hath a hand,
That in mine ear I durst not stick a rose
O me! my uncle's spirit is in these stones:
Whom it concerns to hear this matter forth,
Curbing his lavish spirit: and, to conclude,
My daughter! O, my daughter!
And move in that obedient orb again
Toward heaven, to pardon blood, and I have built
Ah, dear, if I be so,
The noble Duke of Bedford late deceased,
Exit
[Coming forward]  This can be no trick: the
The French, my lord, men's mouths are full of it:
And did he send you both these letters at an instant?
believe: 'tis my slowness that I do not, for I know
His tongue obey'd his hand: who were below him
To help him of his blindness,
O, welcome, Oxford! for we want thy help.
Peace be to England, if that war return
Exit
O well-knit Samson! strong-jointed Samson! I do
Quiet untroubled soul, awake, awake!
To HENRY BOLINGBROKE
Come, now towards Chertsey with your holy load,
Were still at odds, being but three.
It is to jet upon a prince's right?
Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,
Sir, I shall not be slack: in sign whereof,
He thinks me now incapable, confederates--
Our prayers to the gods, which is a comfort
I care not.
Well, I shall see her to-day. Hold, there's money
For our losses, his exchequer is too poor, for the
By that which has undone thee: hinge thy knee,
Charles, I will play no more tonight,
Since I saw you last,
should lodge them with this sign.
Let me ask you one thing:
nay-word, that you may know one another's mind, and
Withal, what I have been, and what I am.
I think thou art in mind, and so am I.
Of thine or mine, is most in Helena.
Who, Thersites?
Come, away!
But even with law, against the willful sons
'Little' again! nothing but 'low' and 'little'!
O, by no means: she mocks all her wooers out of suit.
Nym, and Pistol.
Let proof speak.
'Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and white
Wherewith you now bedew King Henry's hearse,
and make a vassal of him.
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
How now, my lord!
To seek you at your house. Well, I will hie,
What one, i' faith?
I could afflict you farther.
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and SIR ANDREW
But I will wed thee in another key,
And merely to revenge him on the emperor
which now shall die in oblivion and thou return
No, my lord.
Presumes to reach, all thy whole heap must die.
Go to, I say you shall.
Re-enter HERMIA
Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth,
Yon island carrions, desperate of their bones,
you. Your name, honest gentleman?
With letters of commission from the king.
Well, well, as for him, he brought his disease
Let me put in your minds, if you forget,
Well then, it now appears you need my help:
I never saw a better-fashion'd gown,
wise man among twenty that will praise himself.
Tell Athens, in the sequence of degree
Assign'd am I to be the English scourge.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  I fear her not, unless she
He, with two striplings-lads more like to run
ARIEL'S song.
have not called up her steward Malvolio and bid him
Ay me! for aught that I could ever read,
Your answer, sir.
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
The first and second cause will not serve my turn,
If beauty, wisdom, modesty, can settle
Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.
Exit
I love thee more and more: think more and more
content to do the profession some grace, that would,
yet it is necessary. An old sheep-whistling rogue a
And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts.
But I am faint, my gashes cry for help.
And art mine own. I know not why, wherefore,
My lord?
Tear for tear, and loving kiss for kiss,
Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester?
Our empress' shame, and stately Rome's disgrace!
For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
And Warwick shall disprove it. You forget
With all my love I do commend me to you:
To-morrow, then, we will attend your grace:
O Lord!
A man well known throughout all Italy.
which is in the manner of his nurse, or his dry
O, could this kiss be printed in thy hand,
As she lived now.
You start away
How young Leander cross'd the Hellespont.
The same upon your finger.
Then, noble York, take thou this task in hand.
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
And then all this thou seest is but a clod
Pale as thy smock! when we shall meet at compt,
Farewell, sweet lord, and sister.
Famous Plantagenet, most gracious prince,
Of that there's none, or little.
There, then, that vizard, that superfluous case
I mean, the fashion.
Exit
married man, he's his wife's head, and I can never
Only reserved, you claim no interest
Ere I was risen from the place that show'd
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
For who hates honour hates the gods above.
long, I must get a sconce for my head and ensconce
His father and I were soldiers together, to whom I
Has cluck'd thee to the wars and safely home,
Lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
This comes too near the praising of myself,
to-morrow. 'Sblood,'twas time to counterfeit, or
Was never yet for sleep.
In the adventure of this perilous day.
many of us: that we did, we did for the best, and
of winter's sisterhood kisses not more religiously,
And yet but justice, for though
Come to thy grandam, child.
There is none: man, sitting down before you, will
And hung their rotten coffins up in chains,
Or doth this churlish superscription
Proffers his only daughter to your grace
In the converse of breath: your gentleness
O, courage, courage, princes! great Achilles
Of her contaminated carrion weight,
The leisure and enforcement of the time
Nay, I hope.
Enter Sheriff and the Carrier
The itch of his affection should not then
From whose so many weights of baseness cannot
grace, by the world, sometime to lean upon my poor
As to offend, himself being offended,
I fear me both are false.
Whispers
Fool, there was never a man so notoriously abused: I
But the plain devil and dissembling looks,
Of vile confederates. Along with them
barrow of butcher's offal, and to be thrown in the
roast your goose.
See, brother, see, note how she quotes the leaves.
Lives my sweet son?
again for all the coin in thy father's exchequer.
make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon occasion.
Ned, where are our disguises?
Yet so he ruled and such a prince he was
I learnt it out of women's faces. Pray now
I was contracted to them both: all three
Thou art a traitor and a miscreant,
wise men do foolishly.
perfect yellow.
Smiling at grief. Was not this love indeed?
A long-tongued babbling gossip? no, lords, no:
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
top and instantly break with you of it.
Enter OSWALD
And then, forsooth, the faint defects of age
My love, my life my soul, fair Helena!
Romeo!
Why, so: you have made good work!
Now, masters, draw.
Then let her beauty be her wedding-dower,
Never lack'd gold and yet went never gay,
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
Ay, that's the theme.
So in the Lethe of thy angry soul
Nay, but this dotage of our general's
charity to my wit: do not think it so unwholesome.
Darest thou resolve to kill a friend of mine?
He'll strike, and quickly too: he's dead and rotten.
Well, he's not here I seek for.
Is it even so? rewards he my true service
The prince my brother hath outgrown me far.
Weakness possesseth me, and I am faint.
With modesty admiring thy renown,
And sweet revenge grows harsh.
And here is come to do some villanous shame
Yet give leave, my lord,
Have I once lived to see two honest men?
In the church-way paths to glide:
As who should say 'When I am dead and gone,
Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course
But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
Must have a stop. O, I could prophesy,
[Aside]  I see she's like to have neither cap nor gown.
Would give it quick consideration, for
God hold it, to your honour's good content!
But for supporting robbers, shall we now
Obedience, which you owe your father. For
The town will rise: God's will, lieutenant, hold!
My purpose would prove well. It cannot be
If you can look into the seeds of time,
Enter SUFFOLK and QUEEN MARGARET
Beats down their swords
said, the fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is
No, madam.
In thy foul throat thou liest: Queen Margaret saw
I'll say as they say and persever so,
Were they all made such men. How now, Pisanio!
I'll try you on the shore.
What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid
And Antenorides, with massy staples
Pluck'd four away.
Why, how now, sons and brother! at a strife?
Third Serving-man	My lord, we know your grace to be a man
Whiles we shut the gates
And in the fountain shall we gaze so long
I do consent--
It may be good: pride hath no other glass
And was embark'd to cross to Burgundy,
in the world, if a' could get her good-will.
It's the wind.
I noted her not, but I looked on her.
may do homage: find me to marry me with Octavius
Should leave the helm and like a fearful lad
But felt a fever of the mad and play'd
hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding queen
Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me,
I should have known no less.
You would have slipt like him, but he, like you,
As it shall follow in my correction: and God defend
Carry him gently to my fairest chamber
And interjoin their issues. So with me:
I'll have done presently.
Might liquid tears or heart-offending groans
And by these badges understand the king.
is that he will steal himself into a man's favour and
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
any convenience, an he were double and double a
How swift his ship.
And by her presence still renew his sorrows.
supposed Earl of Gloucester, that he is a manifold
Why didst not tell me sooner? pox of your love letters!
You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes.
Thy paleness moves me more than eloquence,
Welcome, my lord, to this brave town of York.
My lord, I'll hit him now.
With a nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant
That hid the worse and show'd the better face.
Is it this, sir?
This virtue and this moral discipline,
Well, more or less, or ne'er a whit at all,
Re-enter ARIEL like a water-nymph
Aaron, I see thou wilt not trust the air
I'll follow those that even now fled hence,
Diana's temple is not distant far,
The Knights and Ladies dance
The Prince of Cumberland, which honour must
What said he when he came unto himself?
'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he,
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child,
If that be jest, then all the rest was so.
Draw that thy honest sword, which thou hast worn
I dare your quenchless fury to more rage:
all, believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
Enter BUCKINGHAM
For Somerset, off with his guilty head.
The ratifiers and props of every word,
I swear, I scorn the term, Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.
O worthy prince, dishonour not your eye
But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
article of thy gentry.
Were he as famous and as bold in war
Enter MACBETH, BANQUO, ROSS, and ANGUS
Enter, from the brothel, two Gentlemen
There in the full convive we: afterwards,
Nay, come, for if they do approach the city, we
He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a
I saw them at the prison: a saucy friar,
also, to smell out work for the other senses. I see
The French and English, there miscarried
Gentlemen, rise: his highness is not well.
Is the king stirring, worthy thane?
Being unprepared,
I may do that I shall be sorry for.
You say he has been thrown in the rivers and has
We do condemn thee to the very block
lose the tide, if you tarry any longer.
She's but the sign and semblance of her honour.
Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle
The leaf of eglantine, whom not to slander,
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
I can produce a champion that will prove
Shall we well meet them, that way are they coming.
Which we much rather had depart withal
How now! what art thou?
Piercing our Romans: then, valiant Titus, take
Go, go, you are a counterfeit cowardly knave. Will
SCENE II. The same. Another street.
measure in strength. If I could win a lady at
In my green velvet coat, my dagger muzzled,
would, sir, as my father shall specify--
Great men may jest with saints, 'tis wit in them,
And yet I must remember you, my lord,
money, next, give me your hand, and last, as I am a
Working so grossly in a natural cause,
Peter, take my fan, and go before and apace.
What, you mean my face?
And so am I, being else by faith enforced
Hautboys playing loud music. A great banquet  served in, FLAVIUS and others attending, then enter  TIMON, ALCIBIADES, Lords, Senators, and VENTIDIUS.  Then comes, dropping, after all, APEMANTUS, discontentedly, like himself
What though the common people favour him,
broke bread, but God is to be worshipped, all men
And that my path were even to the crown,
Why do you stir so early?
Tendering my person's safety, hath appointed
Nay, never bear me hence, dispatch me here,
In this the antique and well noted face
And bear him to the rock.
Conceives by me! How likes Hortensio that?
Exit HORATIO
My discontented peers! What! mother dead!
Windy attorneys to their client woes,
[Aside]  These be fine things, an if they be
But I must also feel it as a man:
Than that conferr'd on Goneril. Now, our joy,
O, you say well.
Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth!
A valiant son-in-law thou shalt enjoy,
out of his swaddling-clouts.
Say that some lady, as perhaps there is,
How now! interjections? Why, then, some be of
But send him back.
There comes the rain, there begins confusion.
Our Rome will cast upon thee.
He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth
To endure more miseries and greater far
Thou want'st a rough pash and the shoots that I have,
Whither away, Sir John Fastolfe, in such haste?
Come, you and I must walk a turn together,
Do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day,
8. A canopy borne by four of the Cinque-ports,
Forerun fair Love, strewing her way with flowers.
Cry, Trojans, cry! practise your eyes with tears!
Shall sit and pant in your great chairs of ease,
No,'tis to thyself.
By you invited, do attend your presence.
company, and the half shirt is two napkins tacked
Look to the lady, O, she's but o'erjoy'd.
This is desperate, sir.
John Cade of Ashford,
I likewise hear that Valentine is dead.
To have some conference with your grace alone.
One speak for both. What would you?
And come now to create you Duke of York.
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
And takes him by the beard, kisses the gashes
Decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat?
Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,
As is the sepulchre in stubborn Jewry,
With hate in those where I expect most love!
[Aside]  Shot, by heaven! Proceed, sweet Cupid:
Enter three or four Citizens
This was his gentleman in trust--of him
Is to receive our duties, and our duties
The time of universal peace is near:
O, bind him, bind him! let him not come near me.
I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
Yet, since it is but green, it should be put
To give my poor host freedom.
How long shall I be patient? ah, how long
give your dispositions the reins, and be angry at
say what dream it was: man is but an ass, if he go
A king's son! If I do not beat thee out of thy
Have you scored me? Well.
This shows a sound affection.
Enter Sailors
Nay: in that you are astray, 'twere best pound you.
Why, how now, Cromwell!
And would you not do much to do them good?
such alligant terms, and in such wine and sugar of
you'll give him me. Be true to my lord: if he
witness. Here I hold your hand, here my cousin's.
Behold the wounds, the most unnatural wounds,
parcel of their feast, and to be executed ere they
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
And he retires. Where should Othello go?
Yet heavens are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
Matter against him that for ever mars
Or murmuring 'Where's my serpent of old Nile?'
too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
Romans, forget your fealty to me.
For yonder walls, that pertly front your town,
Exeunt
Good my lord, be good to me, your honour is accounted
I knit my handercher about your brows,
Ensuing dangers, as by proof, we see
That like nor peace nor war? the one affrights you,
O most gentle pulpiter! what tedious homily of love
Now good or bad, 'tis but the chance of war.
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence,
O, sweet my mother, cast me not away!
Thou art a murderer.
And will not be uplifted. But remember--
not what's spent in the search: why, thou loss upon
That hatred is so far from jealousy,
My fortunes--parentage--good parentage--
Enter KING HENRY, LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER, the EARL of WESTMORELAND, SIR WALTER BLUNT, and others
Yes, Warwick, Edward dares, and leads the way.
I will not answer thee with words, but blows.
Who after Edward the Third's death reign'd as king,
Princes,
When it comes so smoothly off, so obscenely, as it
His soldiers spying his undaunted spirit
Of his demerits rob Cominius.
Why, by making him uncapable of Othello's place,
standing pool, who is whipped from tithing to
We came into the world like brother and brother,
And hemm'd about with grim destruction:
'Tis now the king's, and call'd Whitehall.
infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly
Madam, and pretty mistresses, give ear:
You should have ta'en the advantage of his choler
Ha, thou mountain-foreigner! Sir John and Master mine,
That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
live long.
Perhaps some merchant hath invited him,
Through whom the gods have shown their power, that can
I do demand,
And not alone in habit and device,
Peel'd priest, dost thou command me to be shut out?
himself, if he mend, he is no longer dishonest, if
Grates me: the sum.
I never did her any, to my knowledge.
dead, there needs none to be blamed. Marry, if he
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
Sir John and all.
Of him that did not ask, but mock, bestow
And such barren plants are set before us, that we
Exeunt
O, sir, things must be as they may, and what a man
Impairing Henry, strengthening misproud York,
Bring in our daughter, clothed like a bride,
De hand. Et les doigts?
If there be such a dart in princes' frowns,
Her people out upon her, and Antony,
I'll see their trial first. Bring in the evidence.
Yourself into a power tyrannical,
To kiss this shrine, this mortal-breathing saint:
Leontes, king of Sicilia, thou art here accused and
Fear not my truth: the moral of my wit
LUCIUS, MARCUS, and the others descend
This sudden sending him away must seem
Why would he for the momentary trick
hear of me, so think of me. Go, comfort your
Or who should study to prefer a peace.
Betwixt a father by thy step-dame govern'd,
I stood upon the hatches in the storm,
Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus Pompeius
Not well disposed, the mind growing once corrupt,
You may jest on, but, by the holy rood,
Thou lay'st in every gash that love hath given me
And duty in his service perishing.
When I shall meet him in the court of heaven
Ay, madam.
I shall not look upon his like again.
Plough Rome and harrow Italy: I'll never
And summon him to-morrow to the Tower,
Hangs one that gathers samphire, dreadful trade!
The great assay of art, but at his touch--
And make them skirr away, as swift as stones
Why should not I then prosecute my right?
Rule in this realm, and the gored state sustain.
will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer
him up ever since he was three years old, and his
More worthier than their voices. They know the corn
A poor unfortunate beggar.
I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
And all the better is it for the maid:
I have heard it said so. O, these men, these men!
And now my tongue's use is to me no more
Enter PATROCLUS
If I do not, never trust me, take it how you will.
up the meat, the two crowns of the egg. When thou
Be held by you denials. Do not bid me
Should be maintain'd, assembled and collected,
What's your Will?
What I must strive to do.
Which I did make him swear to keep for ever.
Exeunt TROILUS and CRESSIDA
O, would the king, Biron, and Longaville,
Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,
Methinks I should revive the soldiers' hearts,
And put in every honest hand a whip
It is no matter, let no images
which may make you and him to rue at the other.
I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,
'Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!'
As false, by heaven, as heaven itself is true.
Yet tell'st thou not how thou wert entertain'd.
Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
The King of Scots, whom she did send to France,
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse with his rapier drawn, and DROMIO of Syracuse
We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar,
fifteen hundred paces of your tents.
Cry the man mercy, love him, take his offer:
'Against the Duke of Suffolk, for enclosing the
and the princes, our kindred, are going to see the
to Ajax: he will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror,
When daisies pied and violets blue
This dangerous treason lurking in our way
But fathers that bear bags
Man and wife:
Of an one pain, save for a night of groans
He's banish'd, and it shall be so.
Where he for grace is kneel'd to.
To raze one title of your honour out:
Exeunt
Why, villain, thou must know first.
I have a pain upon my forehead here.
Must I go like a traitor thither?
To question of his apprehension.
Adieu, brave Moor, use Desdemona well.
Slew three opposers: Tarquin's self he met,
I will be welcome, then: conduct me thither.
'Twere pity two such friends should be long foes.
What holier than, for royalty's repair,
Who in that sale sells pardon from himself,
Go, wind, to wind, there turn and change together.
Prithee, say on:
In this I'll be impartial, be you judge
I bleed, sir, but not kill'd.
Which hurts, and is desired. Dost thou lie still?
'Twill make them cool in zeal unto your grace.
Exit
Most mighty duke, behold a man much wrong'd.
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
I mean, I walked upon: it is y-cleped thy park. Then
With visages displayed, to talk and greet.
a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
Hast heavy substance, bleed'st not, speak'st, art sound.
Profess'd the contrary.
Re-enter Provost
Come hither, Gardiner.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches
With this immodest clamorous outrage
It is not Caesar's natural vice to hate
A prodigy of fear and a portent
Come on, then, I will swear to study so,
I would correct him.
According as your ladyship desired,
Seizing LAVINIA
I live with bread like you, feel want,
The good I stand on is my truth and honesty:
Lie in a pitch'd field.
Exit CASSIO
True,
Is not the king's name twenty thousand names?
And welcome to our shearing!
I'll no gainsaying.
And I will love thee, and prefer thee too.
Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.
send for certain of my creditors: and yet, to say
Where is your husband?
It is reported that he has taken their greatest
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
While I make way from hence to save my life:
Heavy! belike it hath some burden then?
[Within]  Cry, Trojans, cry!
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
Nay, then thou wilt starve, sure, for here's nothing
His ready sense, then straight his doubled spirit
If you deny to dance, let's hold more chat.
Pray now, your news?
Woman its pretty self--into a waggish courage:
For womanish it is to be from thence.
Good night:
A great sign, sir, that he will look sad.
For I must think of that which company
Mine honourable mistress.
Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral.
My uncle practises more harm to me:
And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
Not so, sir, under correction, sir, I hope it is not so.
I love thee infinitely. But hark you, Kate,
Away, base cullions! Suffolk, let them go.
Sweet health and fair desires consort your grace!
Our nation's terror and their bloody scourge!
married to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth
Death makes no conquest of this conqueror,
Make sacred even his stirrup, and through him
No man so potent breathes upon the ground
Et bonum quo antiquius, eo melius.
Desire him not to flatter with his lord,
The envious slanders of her false accusers,
On your attendance, my lord, here.
Shout within
amongst you as suits, with gentlemen of your
Enter MARK ANTONY and VENTIDIUS
Marcus Luccicos, is not he in town?
During the wars of York and Lancaster
I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
unjust knave, I will no more trust him when he leers
Nor wink, nor nod, nor kneel, nor make a sign,
To his own scandal.
Wept like two children in their deaths' sad stories.
Argo, their thread of life is spun.
That triumph thus upon my misery!
Exit
And what is written shall be executed.
is called the Reproof Valiant. If again 'it was not
[Aside to BOYET]  He may not by the yard.
Or shall I think in silver she's immured,
Ay, my good lord.
And made us speak like friends: this man was riding
The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's flat.
Lean, raw-boned rascals! who would e'er suppose
Like a full soldier. Let's to the seaside, ho!
too, and ambiguities.
I should have found it afterwards well done,
A world of torments though I should endure,
justified in our loves, for indeed--
Go to him, madam, speak to him:
Thou setter up and plucker down of kings,
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
'Tis not the roundure of your old-faced walls
Therefore, to speak, and to avoid the first,
Chalks successors their way, nor call'd upon
Prithee, fair youth,
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
chamber, for Pyramus and Thisby says the story, did
Brother, good night: to-morrow is the day.
Have chose as umpire of their mutiny:
We are beastly, subtle as the fox for prey,
motley in my brain. Good madonna, give me leave to
Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee,
service, look you, sir, he bid me knock him and rap
Unless I spake, or look'd, or touch'd, or carved to thee.
Are still together, who twin, as 'twere, in love
Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder.
Into so quiet and so sweet a style.
Ay, my lord.
I would thou hadst been son to some man else:
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things,
Alla stoccata carries it away.
For who so firm that cannot be seduced?
How wildly then walks my estate in France!
impudent, embossed rascal, if there were anything in
That lies like truth: 'Fear not, till Birnam wood
Let's to the Capitol,
Thee will I love and with thee lead my life:
He had a fever when he was in Spain,
to Brutus', to Cassius', burn all: some to Decius'
And will with all expedience charge on us.
From open haunts and popularity.
Now, if you can blush and cry 'guilty,' cardinal,
What is the name?
A better witness back than words, which we,
We have frighted with our trumpets, so, 'tis clear,
My grandsire, well advised, hath sent by me
Enter Sir William LUCY
I will not stay to offend you.
Of Mars's fiery steed. To other regions
Never trust me, then, and by all means stir on the
But, I pray you, let none of your people stir me: I
ACT II
take me by the hand, and say 'Harry of England I am
Further than seen and one infect another
I kiss his dirty shoe, and from heart-string
Let's follow, 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
And why not queen?
Despair thy charm,
Enter Host
Not know my voice! O time's extremity,
Who crown'd the gracious duke in high despite,
His taken labours bid him me forgive,
Put garlands on thy head.
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
It must not bear my daughter.
Pinch wanton on your cheek, call you his mouse,
A madman's mercy bade thee run away.
world! One that is well-nigh worn to pieces with
That noble honour'd lord, is fear'd and loved?
this is the glove of Alencon, that your majesty is
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
I know not, gentlemen, what you intend,
He hath, my lord.
You have beguiled me with a counterfeit
Reveals before 'tis ripe, what thou dost know
That our devices still are overthrown,
Peace!--
Where this is question'd send our letters, with
[Within]  By my troth, your town is troubled with
That thought them sure of you.
that's no matter, the greater part carries it. I
That we at our own charge shall ransom straight
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
That's as much as to say, Can she so?
That Timon cares not. But if be sack fair Athens,
Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee:
Master Fenton, talk not to me, my mind is heavy: I
What reason have you for't?
My lord, old Sir John, with half-a-dozen more, are
Come place him here by me,
might it not?
The Pyrenean and the river Po,
A traitor to his God, his king and him,
And manhood is call'd foolery, when it stands
'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
They do retire.
Because you are not merry: and 'twere as easy
Then give me leave to have prerogative,
Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably.
They cannot be too sweet for the king's tartness.
And would have kept so long as breath did last!
And the offender's life lies in the mercy
Taint the condition of this present hour,
That will I make before I let thee go.
Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burthen,
The fifth, an hand environed with clouds,
No, as I am a Christian:
Early to-morrow will we rise, and hence.
Enter OTHELLO, IAGO, and Gentlemen
Will I give place or notice.
Nay, I'll come: if I lose a scruple of this sport,
yet it is not, it is but so so. Art thou wise?
You and your fellows, I'll have it come to question:
Why come you not? what! multitudes, and fear?
duke's brother.
these clothes are good enough to drink in, and so be
Take heed, sirrah, the whip.
Proof?
Hold off your hands.
Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely
my lady talk of it yesterday, and of a foolish
Hold up your hands, say nothing, I'll speak all.
good, sir, to rise and be put to death.
Exit an Attendant
Valentine!
[Aside]	I may perceive
Look, how the black slave smiles upon the father,
But is there any?
All thy tediousness on me, ah?
Ah, sirs, consider, he that set you on
Of those that served Mark Antony but late,
And be you kings, command, and I'll obey.
The adventure of her person?
I'll be as patient as a gentle stream
And safely brought to Dover, where inshipp'd
That way, I'll this,--he that first lights on him
Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will
I could endure any thing before but a cat, and now
Come on, bawd, I will instruct thee in my trade, follow.
Exit BIRON
About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca:
Exeunt
Lady, give me your hand, and, as we walk,
But what's his offence?
Exit
How much more elder art thou than thy looks!
Oft have I heard of you, my Lord Biron,
Ay, now begin our sorrows to approach:
What's he?
Mighty and to be fear'd, than my condition,
Have with you. Fare you well.
His brother here and put him to the sword:
When they shall hear how we have play'd the men.
You may.
Good my lord, enter here.
And may that soldier a mere recreant prove,
Light, gentlemen, I'll bind it with my shirt.
Hath no self-love, nor he that loves himself
I have to-night dispatched sixteen businesses, a
then? In respect of the love he bears our house:
received belief, in despite of the teeth of all
Let our just censures
Thus says my king: Say thou to Harry of England:
Weigh'd between loathness and obedience, at
Flute, you must take Thisby on you.
Your eyes are lode-stars, and your tongue's sweet air
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
Thou hast said well, for some of you there present
By the stern brow and waspish action
And the ear-deafening voice o' the oracle,
Traitor!
Thy crystal window ope, look out,
But, brother Antony,--
Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.
Whatever I shall think.
Ever sprung, as sun and showers
Than if not look'd on. I will lead the way.
In seven short years, that here my only son
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
My lord your son drew on my master.
Exit
how many is killed?
Exit
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
part at once, cues and all Pyramus enter: your cue
And we must sleep.
betwixt my uncle and one of the emperial's men.
First hand me: on mine own accord I'll off,
Mistress Anne, and I would not break with her for
Your majesty came not like yourself: you appeared to
For my sake be comfortable, hold death awhile at
For many lives stand between me and home:
ROSENCRANTZ:
I owe you much, and, like a wilful youth,
Master constable, let these men be bound, and
Nay, come, I pray thee, speak, good, good nurse, speak.
Most bloody, fiery, and most terrible.
And gasping to begin some speech, her eyes
'Tis pity of him.
sweet Bianca, if I can by any means light on a fit
Nay, not so neither: but I take him to be the
Flinty mankind, whose eyes do never give
Be not so holy-cruel: love is holy,
Pyramus, you begin: when you have spoken your
Keep thy word: fare thee well.
Follow'd the old man forth: he is return'd.
SCENE XIII. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
You may to me: and 'tis most meet you should.
Dare rack his own: his subject am I not,
That metal, that self-mould, that fashion'd thee
which laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
'Twill grieve your grace my sons should call you father.
What is your name?
Because we thought ourself thy lawful king:
O, this is trim!
Dare mate a sounder man than Surrey can be,
you. O you gods, think I, what need we have any
What noise?
That I, thy enemy, due thee withal,
Uncle, your grace knows how to bear with him.
together: if our father carry authority with
I give, my cause who best can justify.
And hang a calf's-skin on his recreant limbs.
Thy father was the Duke of Milan and
Of all your dear offences! Bear them hence.
Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
Grave tribunes, once more I entreat of you,--
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword,
Thyself shalt see the act:
May pass into the presence of a king,
Adieu, good Sir Hugh.
I was promised them against the feast, but they come
Of place 'tween high and low. Our foe was princely
Are but as pictures: 'tis the eye of childhood
skin hangs about me like an like an old lady's loose
And make your channel his? If he have power
country, simple though I stand here.
Well aim'd of such a young one.
and altogether against my will.
Good night, sir.
Dromio, what stuff of mine hast thou embark'd?
Well, sir, be it as the style shall give us cause to
and horror of it: pray you, away.
Farewell, faint-hearted and degenerate king,
But what particular rarity? what strange,
Otherwise I renounce all confidence.
And not a man, for being simply man,
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
The spacious world cannot again afford
Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine,
O, cry you mercy, sir, I have mistook:
And yet not fall, so light is vanity.
To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony:
Hence! I am qualmish at the smell of leek.
And cry 'O Clarence, my unhappy son!'
And spend his prodigal wits in bootless rhymes
Had you not fully laid my state before me,
That warmer days would come: in these sear'd hopes,
You depend upon him, I mean?
When you went onward on this ended action,
Enter a Messenger that meets YORK. Enter YORK with trumpet and many Soldiers
afore Michaelmas?
The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath,
'Tis true, for those that she makes fair she scarce
For your own ladies and pale-visaged maids
Of what it likes or loathes. Now, for your answer:
his suit and lead him on with a fine-baited delay,
This is kind I offer.
List, list!
If you keep covenant. Had I not brought
And worship this dull fool!
And so, proud-hearted Warwick, I defy thee,
Good mother, do not marry me to yond fool.
Exit BARDOLPH
ACT II
And I a maid at your window,
Return unto thy lord, commend me to him:
You, gracious madam, to unthink your speaking
Into the main of waters. Music! hark!
thus strong,
The sands are number'd that make up my life,
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Then makes him nothing. I must read this paper,
As dreams are made on, and our little life
We judge no less. Uncle of Exeter,
We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case
Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season,
Ay, and 'Rato-lorum' too, and a gentleman born,
Thy master now lies thinking in his bed
Lives he, good uncle? thrice within this hour
And die, ere men can say, God save the queen!
Thy two sons forth, who, by Belarius stol'n,
And she will tell you who your fellow is
He is a very proper man.
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
I cry you mercy, madam, was it you?
Despite of suit, to see a lady's face.
That stays but till her owner comes aboard,
porringer fell off her head, for kindling such a
There's time enough for that,
When thou hast hung thy advanced sword i' the air,
Hover about her, say, that right for right
Kneels
That thou betray'dst Polixenes,'twas nothing,
on his wife's frailty, yet I cannot put off my
But win the noble Brutus to our party--
Fly, noble English, you are bought and sold,
Sir, have pity,
Exit
And art confederate with a damned pack
Though castles topple on their warders' heads,
Divine his downfall? Say, where, when, and how,
Of murderous subornation, shall it be,
What was the speech among the Londoners
It was Alencon that enjoy'd my love.
with my face? You are now out of your text: but
It shall go hard but I'll prove it by another.
You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
The glory of our Troy doth this day lie
Exit
Therefore I say with noble Buckingham,
But, with the motion of all elements,
and wife is one flesh, and so, my mother. Come, for England!
Of more arrivance.
I have a woman's longing.
on when thou art dead and rotten, come hither. What
Nay, I'll not warrant that, for I can speak
God keep me so! Our heralds go with him:
jealousy man: she leads a very frampold life with
She said thou wast my daughter, and thy father
Before a true and lawful magistrate,
I will go darkly to work with her.
Once stir my temper, but this virtuous maid
Enter Nurse
Thou art right welcome as thy master is.
Lets along.
A torch for me: let wantons light of heart
The pretty and sweet manner of it forced
SCENE II. London. The palace.
many irreconciled iniquities, you may call the
For none offend where all alike do dote.
Enter MENENIUS AGRIPPA
He would pun thee into shivers with his fist, as a
He plucks it out of his bosom and reads it
Our neighbour shepherd's son!
Make them best seen and known.
He plies the duke at morning and at night,
And have prepared great store of wedding cheer,
More honourable state, more courtship lives
It is a life that I have desired: I will thrive.
Her vine, the merry cheerer of the heart,
And is not careful what they mean thereby,
strange fowl light upon neighbouring ponds. Your
Shamest thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught,
gentle: and since the wisdom of their choice is
would be glad to receive some instruction from my
To the best bride-bed will we,
Be absolute for death, either death or life
See, where he lies inhearsed in the arms
for the most part are capable of nothing but
We should infringe the holy privilege
Buckingham, doth York intend no harm to us,
Write down, that they hope they serve God: and
God-den to you all, god-den to you all.
Of whom you seem to have so tender care?
How now, my lord! you desire to know
Her brother, having both their country quitted
Tut, tut, good enough to toss, food for powder, food
No further, sir.
But, in mine emulous honour, let him die,
From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty:
My house is not a grange.
Ay, kennel, puddle, sink, whose filth and dirt
What Propugnation is in one man's valour,
Far from her nest the lapwing cries away:
was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
worthy of by your attempt.
We should not, when the blood was cool,
First let my words stab him, as he hath me.
And spleen of speed to see your majesty!
And turn pre-ordinance and first decree
O, sir, I find her milder than she was,
three and twenty years.
another. This making Christians will raise the
Alas, the tender boy, in passion moved,
The theme of our assembly.
And yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it,
And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch,
None better in my kingdom. Get you gone,
Help, three o' the chiefest soldiers, I'll be one.
His bloody sword he brandish'd over me,
Tut, these are petty faults to faults unknown.
Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA
helped her: there your charity would have lacked footing.
And to be a soldier?
pretty encounters, press it to death: away!
They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
Come quickly, Montague, or I am dead.
This is the woman, but not this the man.
The first, the Retort Courteous, the second, the
A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,
the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
joints of every thing, but everything so out of joint
Even with the bloody payment of your deaths:
For so your father charged me at our parting,
I give thee this to dry thy cheeks withal.
entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed.
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
How to live better. For your stubborn answer
A lady to the worthiest sir that ever
Show me how, good father.
O murderous slave! O villain!
I bar it in the interest of my wife:
Culling of simples, meagre were his looks,
we are come off
Shall I lay perjury upon my soul?
Exit
But in this kind, wanting your father's voice,
burning in hell-fire?
I say 'tis copper: darest thou be as good as thy word now?
But do not love thyself, then thou wilt keep
How is't, brother!
To the PRINCESS
love thy husband, look to thy servants, cherish thy
With all true faith. So says my master Antony.
Ay, even such heaps and sums of love and wealth
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
Let me o'erleap that custom, for I cannot
And from my false hand cut the wedding-ring
O jest unseen, inscrutable, invisible,
As I will watch the aim, or to find both
Ay, that there is. Our court, you know, is haunted
Receive the blood: and when that they are dead,
And sends the poor well pleased from my gate.
Good signiors both, when shall we laugh? say, when?
court, but for me, I have an answer will serve all
Severals and generals of grace exact,
Well, I have told you enough of this: for my part,
A serving-man, proud in heart and mind, that curled
Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey. Farewell: go, say I
A fair one are you--well you fit our ages
The sixth was Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester,
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
Hark, what good sport is out of town to-day!
Or blessed was't we did?
Of that occasion that shall bring it on.
in mine office, awakens me with this unwonted
And here commit you to my lord cardinal
For every trifle are they set upon me,
Permitted by our dastard nobles, who
Thou art going to Lord Timon's feast?
The greatest man in England but the king.
Shall chide your trespass and return your mock
Do you not remember, a' saw a flea stick upon
becomes you, for, out of question, you were born in
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
And quoted joint by joint.
truly, my ancient skill beguiles me, but, in the
And didst contract and purse thy brow together,
But not approach'd.
Here therefore for a while I will remain.
And more, much more, the time will bring it out:
Exit ANGELO
That sways the earth this climate overlooks,
Like a drowned man, a fool and a mad man: one
Is oft the cause of fear. But, see, thy brother.
You have not dared to break the holy seal
To our most fair and princely cousin Katharine,
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
To ruffle in the commonwealth of Rome.
An affable and courteous gentleman:
Stay, and breathe awhile:
Ha!
And for thy maintenance commits his body
The first-begotten and the lawful heir,
lordship sees the bottom of his success in't, and to
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
fain have either.
the poet makes a most excellent description of it:
A subtle knave! but yet it shall not serve.
Of your good pleasure? If it be no more,
Of all the court and princes of my blood:
A mad-cup ruffian and a swearing Jack,
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
He bears too great a mind. But this same day
Wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own?
More fit to do another such offence
upon him, for my business seethes.
Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail.
In my chamber-window lies a book: bring it hither
mourners, and stay dinner.
That thus he marcheth with thee arm in arm?
Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
If I be not by her fair influence
Away! for thou hast stay'd us here too long.
That she was coming with a full intent
A stone by thee.
And loyal wife.
Christ's mother helps me, else I were too weak.
The commons hath he pill'd with grievous taxes,
It is no matter-a ver dat: do not you tell-a me
Outlives encertain pomp, is crown'd before:
Thou cunning'st pattern of excelling nature,
Newly preferr'd from the king's secretary,
Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush
By force took Dromio and my son from them
Whither wilt thou have me?
Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way
Mother Jourdain, be you
Why, how now, general! no more of that.
river, but 'tis all one, 'tis alike as my fingers is
You go about to torture me in vain.
Grovelling on the ground
Dies
Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash,
She is your treasure, she must have a husband,
Am I a lord? and have I such a lady?
You need it not.
With treacherous crowns, and three corrupted men,
And left the ship, then sinking-ripe, to us:
But creep in crannies when he hides his beams.
Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong:
This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven,
a-birding, she desires you once more to come to her
Likely in time to bless a regal throne.
Sir, this should be answer'd.
O Buckingham, now do I play the touch,
Enter DUKE SOLINUS, AEGEON, Gaoler, Officers, and other Attendants
Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigour,
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
Yes, yes, it was Bassanio, as I think, he was so called.
I do hate a proud man, as I hate the engendering of toads.
Head, and butt! an hasty-witted body
Very well, sir, proceed.
Lord, Lord, how the ladies and I have put him down!
For such as I am all true lovers are,
Exit
I have been talking with a suitor here,
For I will make him tell the tale anew,
And heap'd sedition on his crown at home.
a-wooing, 'Priami,' is my man Tranio, 'regia,'
O, be removed from him, and answer well!
The king my father!
Given ear to our complaint, of his great grace
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
What, will my daughter prove a good musician?
In undeserved extremes: see else yourself,
Go, John, go inquire for my master, I doubt
I am bound to thee for ever.
Where she remains now sick.
And his achievements of no less account:
Indeed, that is out o' the air.
You are deceived, my lord, she never saw it:
Thou drown the sad remembrance of those wrongs
And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust Ye?
Whereof ungrateful man, with liquorish draughts
As well as I had seen and heard him speak
As fear not but you shall,--show her this ring,
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Sword, I will hollow thee for this thy deed,
Being awake, enforce them to this place,
Upon my part shall be unviolable.
Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder
Madam, here comes my lord.
May hold him from the Capitol to-day.
Happiness courts thee in her best array,
Deserved this so dishonour'd rub, laid falsely
It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it.
Marry, but you shall have, and here's my hand.
Now forth, lord constable and princes all,
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
But, soft! company is coming here.
Wouldst have me rescue thee from this reproach?
A little daughter: for the sake of it,
More worth than empty vanities, yet prayers and wishes
And hear me speak a word.
May sweep to my revenge.
Speak, captain, shall I stab the forlorn swain?
Your answer, sir, is enigmatical:
The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth,
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
sinews, or else there be liars. Hector have a great
A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman,
gods great harm in their women, for in every ten
No more a Briton, I have resumed again
I prithee tell me, cram's with praise, and make's
which you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
I do believe you think what now you speak,
but a provoking merit, set a-work by a reprovable
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
And then his banishment.
Be buckled with: the over-daring Talbot
I am answered, sir.
The worthy fellow is our general: he's the rock, the
Ah, froward Clarence! how evil it beseems thee
of his leg, the manner of his gait, the expressure
Tell our devotion with revengeful arms?
That same Biron I'll torture ere I go:
Thanks, noble peer,
I did some service, of such note indeed,
Who, but for staying on our controversy,
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons!
Why thou against the church, our holy mother,
And make high majesty look like itself,
I am as like to call thee so again,
We rest your hermits.
They shall go far with little.
For which attempt the judges have pronounced
DON
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
Thersites!
My lord it shall be done.
Enter MARK ANTONY, OCTAVIUS CAESAR, OCTAVIA between them, and Attendants
ensemble: de hand, de fingres, de nails, de arm, de
That, for the health and physic of our right,
Give me another horse: bind up my wounds.
Hector, by this, is arming him in Troy,
Sir, sir,--
Of this most wise rebellion, thou go'st foremost:
Your knees to me? to your corrected son?
From whence you have them. You are jealous now
Though to have her and death were both one thing.
And all my children?
to-morrow?
Fast foe to the plebeii, your voices might
'Tis thought your deer does hold you at a bay.
their particular functions and wonder at him. I
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
You sad Andronici, have done with woes:
Would I were dead, so you did live again!
Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage,
We may as bootless spend our vain command
you not. I'll not be far from you: do you find
No, let's come in.
But believe you this, my lord, that, not long ago,
And call him noble that was now your hate,
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of
I, measuring his affections by my own,
Will turn unto a peaceful comic sport,
eyes too, examined my parts with most judicious
My trusty servant, well approved in all,
One that rejoices in the common wreck,
and allowed your approach rather to wonder at you
him in gold: I heard him tell it to one of his
The deck, with glove, or hat, or handkerchief,
mutinies in a man's bosom, it fills one full of
He was from thence discharged. Sir, call to mind
To entertain my vows of thanks and praise!
No more dams I'll make for fish
The supreme seat, the throne majestical,
Say 'What is it your honour will command?'
They lead him out forcibly
Your hand, Salerio: what's the news from Venice?
And with a great heart heave away the storm:
O, God help me! God help me! how long have you
Let him be call'd for.
But though my cates be mean, take them in good part,
The life, the right and truth of all this realm
The will! the testament!
I saw him fumble with the sheets and play with
To souse annoyance that comes near his nest.
To tear and havoc more than she can eat.
There's business in these faces. Why so sadly
Will you be prick'd in number of our friends,
Why are you breathless? and why stare you so?
Great Hercules is presented by this imp,
And will deny him:
and I'll play my father.
What never-dying honour hath he got
Hear me, dear lady, I have sworn an oath.
To dash it like a Christmas comedy:
Madam, this letter, and some certain jewels,
Herein misled by your suggestion.
But I shall grieve you to report the rest.
Presumptuous vassals, are you not ashamed
Have you importuned him by any means?
Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth,
Of such divine perfection, as Sir Proteus.
he's a better woodman than thou takest him for.
face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you
By sea! what else?
there to command.
We love our people well, even those we love
You know, Helen,
Doth root upon, while that the coulter rusts
door. Follow my heels, Rugby.
Which argued thee a most unloving father.
As tediously as hell, but flies the grasps of love
And, madam,
Ay, or surly borne,--
metal to make virgins. Virginity by being once lost
when my lust hath dined,--which, as I say, to vex
I am an ass, I am a woman's man and besides myself.
To-day did dine together. So befall my soul
But, as it were, an after-dinner's sleep,
Jack Rugby, he is dead already, if he be come.
What beast! why, an otter.
Ere you can say 'she's honest:' but be 't known,
Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
Who lives that's not depraved or depraves?
Than secret Romans, that have spoke the word,
Therefore they thought it good you hear a play
Let me speak proudly: tell the constable
You have a noble and a true conceit
And humbly thus, with halters on their necks,
Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our roses,
Sour-eyed disdain and discord shall bestrew
What? what?
Go sound the ocean, and cast your nets,
Exeunt
We are sent
Madam, the king is old enough himself
I am glad, though you have ta'en a special stand to
This your request
He talks at random, sure, the man is mad.
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch,
Our purpose may hold there.
That in their country did them that disgrace,
And, part, being prompted by your present trouble,
Some such thing
Why, here begins his morning story right,
All this is comfort, wherefore weep I then?
Be theme and hearing ever, was in this Britain
Swooning destruction, or some joy too fine,
Give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits
I was born free as Caesar, so were you:
She will not come: she bids you come to her.
He's a lamb indeed, that baes like a bear.
And thou, to be endeared to a king,
Make it a darling like your precious eye,
Your heart is full of something that does take
Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
A challenge, on my life.
If I stand here, I saw him.
'Your meat doth burn,' quoth I, 'My gold!' quoth he:
What, and from Troilus too?
'Tis meet he be condemn'd by course of law.
I never thought it possible or likely,
You know your mother means to feast with me,
The cloyed will,
I do beseech you--
To stop his ears against admonishment?
Obscure and lowly swain, King Henry's blood,
Here comes Boyet, and mirth is in his face.
These hairs, which thou dost ravish from my chin,
Corn for the rich men only: with these shreds
Immediately to us.
Good sir, we must,
Our sacks shall be a mean to sack the city,
The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.
Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
There take an inventory of all I have,
So kind to heart, 'tis not enough to give,
Marry, heaven forbid!
'Fore your own eyes and ears?
It will determine one way: fare you well.
I shall not need transport my words by you,
The horse were merely lost, the mares would bear
But, like a lackey, from the rise to set
Where dwell you, pretty youth?
Would we had all such wives, that the men might go
hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely
Sir, there's a barge put off from Mytilene,
That rids our dogs of languish?
Of that report which I so oft have heard.
Becomes a fear, as being o'erpower'd: therefore
'Tis not so, I hope.
Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?
Exit
Exit
Live, like Diana's priest, betwixt cold sheets,
wronged by you.
Wilt thou believe me, Hal? three or four bonds of
There's no remedy,
Makes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen--your son
To grant one boom that I shall ask of you.
O, that way madness lies, let me shun that,
Ay me, what act,
There is no answer made.
you may believe: censure me in your wisdom, and
Lets the paper fall
Sister, you know he promised me a chain,
If we obey them not, this will ensue,
Makes factious feasts, rails on our state of war,
Exeunt
'Item: She is too liberal.'
And now at last, laden with horror's spoils,
down, king!
Upon the foot of motion.
Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend!
So be thy fortune in this royal fight!
I am no idle votarist: roots, you clear heavens!
Whose club kill'd Cerberus, that three-headed canis,
All yet seems well, and if it end so meet,
Is his to use, so Somerset may die.
How you stand minded in the weighty difference
Hang out our banners on the outward walls,
me a piece of marchpane, and, as thou lovest me, let
I understand thy kisses and thou mine,
O spirit of love! how quick and fresh art thou,
In secret ambush on the forest side
That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes,
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, Lords and Attendants
O, let me have no subject enemies,
Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
Are arch'd so high that giants may jet through
He doth object I am too great of birth--,
'Tis well, mistress, your choice agrees with mine,
And that old common arbitrator, Time,
Bleed, bleed, poor country!
Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
skirts of the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.
I know not where I am, nor what I do,
Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas,
Retires
Where, if it please you, you may intercept him.
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them,
That made me happy at one stroke has taken
heard! Steel, if thou turn the edge, or cut not out
Exit
Or let us stand to our authority,
These letters will resolve him of my mind. Farewell.
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
By which I did blame Cato for the death
I am the greatest, able to do least,
Yet will he swear he loves.
Till then farewell, sir: she must needs go in,
He calls for the tortures: what will you say
Than how?
Do but hear me, sir.
To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue.
Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that,
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with
Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust
Lord, Lord! to see what folly reigns in us!
But go we in, I pray thee, Jessica,
ANTIPHOLUS
Your royal ear abused. First, hath this woman
The watch-dogs bark!
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
What's your name?
O'erbear the shores of my mortality,
This earth shall have a feeling and these stones
Whom should he follow but his natural king?
That holds his honour higher than his ease,
may strike at you: provoke him, that he may, for
Cannot be cured by words, therefore be still.
Remove your thought, it doth abuse your bosom.
nothing but the reward of a villain.
I fear our purpose is discovered.
one of my friends.
Is the fair hand that writ.
Until a power be raised to put them down.
youth with comeliness plucked all gaze his way, when
Cannot be ill, cannot be good: if ill,
Here comes the countess: now heaven walks on earth.
truth, I can bear them witness, and virtuous, 'tis
I will try thee. Tell me this: who begot thee?
[Aside to SEBASTIAN]  Let it be to-night,
wars or no?
I claim the promise for her heavenly picture.
Or slunk not Saturnine, as Tarquin erst,
forswear him, or else we are all undone.
Fair love, you faint with wandering in the wood,
With ample and brim fulness of his force,
For else his project dies--to keep them living.
What instance gives Lord Warwick for his vow?
Why, get you gone: who is't that hinders you?
His serious considering.
On him, his sons, his favourites and his friends.
For terror, not to use, in time the rod
O my lord, my lord,
He flashes into one gross crime or other,
I may so.
Tooth'd briers, sharp furzes, pricking goss and thorns,
A sheep-cote fenced about with olive trees?
Speak, I am bound to hear.
Poor queen and son, your labour is but lost,
Against the Roman state, whose course will on
For emulation now, who shall be nearest,
At the port, lord, I'll give her to thy hand,
Enter EDGAR
My comfort comes along. Break up the court:
Do you know this house to be a place of such resort,
of lying. He hath wronged me in some humours: I
Deliver all with charity.
Unless the adage must be verified,
Stephano! If thou beest Stephano, touch me and
Will leave us never an understanding friend.
And much different from the man he was,
Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus
To envious and calumniating time.
a maid, for she is her master's maid, and serves for
I should my tears let fall upon your cheek,
The rites of marriage shall be solemnized.
Then in my pocket, which directed him
Demand the like.
Which being shallow, you give me leave
He hath indeed, almost natural: for besides that
Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt,
Whereof by parcels she had something heard,
What is his strength by land?
O noble judge! O excellent young man!
beard is less than a man: and he that is more than
Which fronted mine own peace. As for my wife,
thing to you, wherein I must very much lay open mine
Such as move men, beside, she hath prosperous art
When a man's verses cannot be understood, nor a
Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me:
Art thou his friend?
And pen her up.
If this were so, so were it uttered.
To fall before the lion than the wolf!
Ruled, like a wandering planet, over me,
O, tell me when my lips do touch his cheeks,
were to say more than I know. That he is old, the
It appears so by the story.
The obsequies that I for thee will keep
And with her plague, her sin his injury,
And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.
Than fall, and bruise to death. Alas, this gentleman
What is Pyramus? a lover, or a tyrant?
Mistake my fortunes, I am wealthy in my friends.
Most radiant, exquisite and unmatchable beauty,--I
back thy business there: whereupon I command thee to
Hear you. my lords,--
fencing, dancing and bear-baiting: O, had I but
Than he that dies and lives by bloody drops?
But when from under this terrestrial ball
SCENE X. Another part of the plains.
Men do their broken weapons rather use
When once he was mature for man,
You should be satisfied.
For I am stifled with this smell of sin.
Which I gave him for cordial, she is served
and though the devil lead the measure, such are to
And then comes answer like an Absey book:
Why, as it were unlicensed of your loves,
Into the abysm of hell. If he mislike
Shall Suffolk ever have of Margaret.
Ah, Clifford, murder not this innocent child,
If thou art changed to aught, 'tis to an ass.
To be corrupt and treasonous.
Order gave each thing view, the office did
Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd,
Thou hast spoke for us, madonna, as if thy eldest
Since I have ever follow'd thee with hate,
goodness in worm.
That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter,
And so proceed accordingly.
I will now hear, what say you of this gentlewoman?
SCENE IV. A nunnery.
And, ere I part with thee, confer at large
We do it not alone, sir.
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
All these could not procure me any scathe,
Of the old rage: bear with me, I am sick,
Five tribunes to defend their vulgar wisdoms,
Enter OTHELLO and IAGO
Nor set down aught in malice: then must you speak
But, like a cloistress, she will veiled walk
The virtue of your eye must break my oath.
No, no, forsooth, I dare not for my life.
DON
Senators,  and C	We'll surety him.
bell-wether, and to betray a she-lamb of a
French upbraided or abused in disdainful language,
But what said Warwick to these injuries?
This was so and no slumber. Dreams are toys:
for ever perfect.
Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks,
the tongs and the bones.
gentlemen flock to him every day, and fleet the time
I come one way of the Plantagenets.
And let me use my sword, I'll make a quarry
Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumour
Witness these trenches made by grief and care,
Exeunt
Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war
Yes, faith, sir.
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
And bring him to our eye.
As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins
Hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea?
A dish that I do love to feed upon.
Peace, children, peace! the king doth love you well:
And make thy weapon drop.
Thy country's strength and weakness,--thine own ways,
Hector was but a Troyan in respect of this.
Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
SCENE IV. Plains between Troy and the Grecian camp.
What! art thou, like the adder, waxen deaf?
Above the border of this horizon,
Through you, increase our wonder and set up
Feed yourselves with questioning,
So, so, rub on, and kiss the mistress. How now!
'Tis catching hither, even to our camp.
Show'd like a mine. Their dwarfish pages were
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
Alencon! that notorious Machiavel!
native garb, he could not therefore handle an
Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine
To give thee hallow'd to thy grave, but straight
Provide thee two proper palfreys, black as jet,
To FLORIZEL
So long as heaven and nature lengthens it.
I must advance the colours of my love
called which I apprehended with the aforesaid
The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve:
So under fortune, which you thought had been
Or I will fetch thy rim out at thy throat
And, in that ease, I'll tell thee my disease.
Yet here they shall not lie, for catching cold.
And so, my good lord mayor, we bid farewell.
Where lies your text?
Well, miscreant, I'll be there as soon as you,
being here and hath threatened to put me into
Some monstrous malefactor. Prithee, friend,
Good hearts, devise something: any extremity rather
In terms of friendship with thine enemies.
SCENE II. Another part of the island.
The battles of the Lord of hosts he fought:
I take my leave before I have begun,
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
brother,	EDGAR.'
How now! what's the matter? My old friend Grumio!
I cry you mercy.
Meantime, in signal of my love to thee,
Of ten times double gain of happiness.
Scarce is dividant, touch them with several fortunes,
My quarrel and this English queen's are one.
SCENE II. Rome. Before TITUS's house.
No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison:
There did this perjured goldsmith swear me down
Safest in shame! being fool'd, by foolery thrive!
A pound of man's flesh taken from a man
a woodcock too?
To see you here before me. O my soul's joy!
And on her virgin honour will not break it.
And may be so we shall.
Mocks married men, for thus sings he, 	Cuckoo,
And, sweet sprites, the burthen bear.
For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd,
I do constantly believe you. The time is come even
A poor physician's daughter, thou dislikest
virginity, and cry 'He that will give most shall
More than the nature of a brother's love!
Erroneous, mutinous and unnatural,
What shall I do the where? where bide? how live?
Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh,
And then hurl down their indignation
And every measure fail me.
Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your
By such poor passion as the maid that milks
And bring me their opinions of success.
persuasion.
Approved warriors, and my faithful friends,
it that always makes a good voyage of nothing. Farewell.
Then to the wood will he to-morrow night
Which do not be entreated to, but weigh
Were most impertinent.
Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,
Talbot, my life, my joy, again return'd!
And when you find him evenly derived
Yea even my foes will shed fast-falling tears,
As he in penance wander'd through the forest,
of England?
Yea, providently caters for the sparrow,
What then?
to eat and none to fight. Now is it time to arm:
Ay, with my sword. What! think'st thou that we fear them?
of it: he came of an errand to me from Parson Hugh.
To see the battle. Hector, whose patience
I give you, and gold confound you howsoe'er! Amen.
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
Re-enter TROILUS
though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
The consequence o' the crown, and must not soil
Honest! good fellow, what's that? If it be a day
I'll peck you o'er the pales else.
Speak yet, how grew your quarrel?
Do not believe his vows, for they are brokers,
They lie indrench'd. I tell thee I am mad
To answer this your charge?
'Tis very true: O wise and upright judge!
Now I perceive thou art a reverend father,
Have said and writ so, but your writing now
This way for me.
It did me good, before the palace gate
When women cannot love where they're beloved!
sleep, and a hangman to help him to bed, I think he
And take her by the hand, whose worth and honesty
the fish, was when, at the relation of the queen's
Alas, poor man!
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
Have follow'd both my fortunes faithfully:
are many, or else your actions would grow wondrous
Stay, the king hath thrown his warder down.
king, be his cause never so spotless, if it come to
My name is Marina.
In nature is a tyranny, it hath been
That hath so long been resident in France?
Mort Dieu!
Her honour is an essence that's not seen,
Soft! here comes sleeve, and t'other.
Ay, my good lord, a son that well deserves
What, I! I love! I sue! I seek a wife!
Thou wast born of woman
O, for two special reasons,
Spoke by a holy monk, 'that oft,' says he,
Thy counsel, lad, smells of no cowardice,
that should desire you to touch him, for his biting
could have rebuked him at Harfleur, but that we
themselves. What wouldst thou do with the world,
How now! what news with you?
SCENE III. OLIVIA'S house.
That I must call't in question.
Makes me look dismal will I clip to form,
Nay, very pale.
That's but a cavil: he is old, I young.
Exeunt all but Malcolm and Donalbain.
Much weightier than this work. The queen's in labour,
if you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or
Enter, to the gates of the monument, PROCULEIUS, GALLUS and Soldiers
manifested effect, I crave but four days' respite,
Like Patience gazing on kings' graves, and smiling
our pleasure to fail, and then will they adventure
To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
Of the defendant, and thou hast incurr'd
of a true subject, didst counsel and aid them, for
By heaven, I had rather coin my heart,
To appease their groaning shadows that are gone.
Why, Warwick, hath thy knee forgot to bow?
There, an't shall please you, a foolish mild man, an
That all the Greeks begin to worship Ajax,
Thou darest not say so, villain, for thy life.
And the late marriage made of none effect
I am arrived for fruitful Lombardy,
I am betroth'd: and art thou not ashamed
Than thine own worth prefer thee: go with me.
Thank your majesty.
more tavern-bills, which are often the sadness of
I am in your debt for your last exercise,
Exeunt
Disorder, horror, fear and mutiny
Why did you throw your wedded lady from you?
Agrees not with the leanness of his purse.
She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of
Farewell, kind Charmian, Iras, long farewell.
thou art altogether given over, and wert indeed, but
The accuser and the accused freely speak:
O villains, Chiron and Demetrius!
Wives may be merry, and yet honest too:
He will be the physician that should be the patient.
But I pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, I beseech you,
Of Comagene, Polemon and Amyntas,
Well, I'll go with thee: provide us all things
wear strange suits, disable all the benefits of your
His present and your pains we thank you for:
seems her affections have their full bent. Love me!
Hence, saucy eunuch, peace!
Reports but coarsely of her.
Well said, fairy Hugh.
But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar,
Do you confess so much? Give me your hand.
And brought Prince Henry in their company,
To weep there!
[Within]  Who is that at the door that keeps all
And yet I know not: thou didst hate her deadly,
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
arrant a villain and a Jacksauce, as ever his black
My lord, the mayor of London comes to greet you.
Than whom no mortal so magnificent!
No, Escanes, know this of me,
Enter ROSENCRANTZ
with an old man.
Noble Aufidius,
too cunning to be understood: what's your offence?
Than wishest should be undone.' Hie thee hither,
Were all the wealth I have shut up in thee,
Cleopatra's health to drink.
And to fulfil his prince' desire,
My lords, look where the sturdy rebel sits,
You are very sensible, and yet you miss my sense:
I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him:
strain were in the same distress.
Has said enough.
The villain is alive in Titus' house,
So shalt thou sinew both these lands together,
And why not the swift foot of Time? had not that
You have no stomach having broke your fast,
Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
he was a man. But I will forward with my device.
Let me sit down. O Juno!
Infirm of purpose!
I pray thee, do on them some violent death,
Not a flower, not a flower sweet
Who with her head nimble in threats approach'd
of a world ransomed, or one destroyed: a notable
Call'd the brave Lord Ponton de Santrailles,
Myself could else out-frown false fortune's frown.
of us, I pray!
Marcus, attend him in his ecstasy,
If I do feign, you witnesses above
The hope of comfort. But for thee, fellow,
Peace, peace, Iras!
Lay forth the gown.
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
Be ruled by me: depart in patience,
To save me from the danger that might come
Why brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
Some reasons of this double coronation
Yourself shall go between 's: the mean time, lady,
To your most gracious hands, that are the substance
The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
Of your great danger.
Because he is near kinsman unto Charles.
But here comes Antony.
Why, I pray you?
Because that I am more than common tall,
Whom should we match with Henry, being a king,
Good husband, let us every one go home,
paid you more, which will shame you to give him again.
Thou art too gentle and too free a man:
And plighter of high hearts! O, that I were
Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown,
This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
Nay, you need not fear us, Lorenzo: Launcelot and I
What needs this iteration, woman? I say thy husband.
SCENE III. A room in the castle.
God be wi' you, fare you well.
Say, what thing? what thing?
And all is done. Then let the trumpets sound
Melting the darkness, so their rising senses
We cannot, sir, we are undone already.
And never yet did insurrection want
Now, my good Lords of Salisbury and Warwick,
With you, my Lord of Lincoln, you remember
You may so, 'tis the better for you that your
To desperate ventures and assured destruction.
Desire his jewels and this other's house:
Two women placed together makes cold weather:
Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in
And beggar'd yours for ever?
Inflamed with Venus: never did young man fancy
That, with the fusty plebeians, hate thine honours,
To look that way thou wert.
Then, heaven, set ope thy everlasting gates,
What we are sorry for ourselves in thee.
Enter AGAMEMNON, AJAX, MENELAUS, NESTOR, DIOMEDES, and others, marching. Shouts within
No, I'll come no more i' the basket. May I not go
These times of woe afford no time to woo.
O, yes, into a thousand similes.
It shall be his. You shall close prisoner rest,
Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for
I am that Isabella and his sister.
It is a day turn'd strangely: or betimes
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
Intended for great Theseus' nuptial-day.
You rather mine, being yours: and so, great powers,
Here she lets fall the sword
One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,
And now methinks I have a mind to it.
Re-enter DUKE VINCENTIO
Then, I am sure, you know how much the gross sum of
the very stream of his life and the business he hath
Harry, how fares your uncle?
Exit
if he break the peace, he ought to enter into a
for the goose carries not the fox. It is well:
From a full-flowing stomach. General,
When articles too nicely urged be stood on.
fry of fornication is at door! On my Christian
I do beseech you, as in way of taste,
That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?
The benefit of our levies, answering us
What's that to the purpose?
Thanks. What's the matter, you dissentious rogues,
Love use Reason for his physician, he admits him
The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms.
That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land
If I should swear by God's great attributes,
What is he for a fool that betroths himself to
And say you do't by our permission,
In the great'st humbleness, and desired your highness
Chrish save me, la! in an hour: O, tish ill done,
bleeding in me. I speak not out of weak surmises,
O, were it but my life,
Against my honour?
distant time stood, as it were, in a fruit-dish, a
But angry, wrathful, and inclined to blood,
Knock,
Who is conductor of his people?
ACT V
My lords, then, under favour, pardon me,
If this salute my blood a jot: it faints me,
Convey him hence and on our longboat's side
But, most of all, agreeing with the proclamation.
Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak
I have seen two such sights, by sea and by land!
Will quench the wonder of her infamy:
Press me not, beseech you, so.
E'en such as you speak to me.
Let us, Lepidus,
To feed my means. Here is a letter, lady,
Or ne'er return again into my sight.
Do in our eyes begin to lose their gloss,
Govern the motion of a kingly eye:
Gentleman,
Give me Bianca for my patrimony.
As full of valour as of royal blood:
O excellent device! was there ever heard a better,
Under the which is writ 'Invitis nubibus.'
Did you send to him, sir?
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Give me some drink, and bid the apothecary
detect the lazy foot of Time as well as a clock.
Ye shall have a hempen caudle, then, and the help of hatchet.
it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing
Were not revenge sufficient for me,
Tongue and brain not, either both or nothing,
Let us take the law of our sides, let them begin.
I did not think to be so sad to-night
It was well done of you to take him at his word.
If thou stand excommunicate and cursed?
Good repose the while!
Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!
Do, do: he'll but break a comparison or two on me,
Thou art proud, Apemantus.
Now shall I see thy love: what motive may
of me, he shall never make me such a fool. One woman
For now the devil, that told me I did well,
If thou but frown on me, or stir thy foot,
Barr'st me my way in Rome?
fluent as the sea: turn the sands into eloquent
Nor I, my lord.
'Thus didest thou.'
As I bethink me, you should not be king
Gerard de Narbon was my father,
What, jealous Oberon! Fairies, skip hence:
A drop of Grecian blood: the end crowns all,
Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You had marr'd all else.
Great king, I am no strumpet, by my life,
Hundreds he sent to hell, and none durst stand him,
Ditch-deliver'd by a drab,
on. She hath made me four and twenty nose-gays for
Here: what news?
him.
Rome, especially his mother, may prevail with him.
I will with patience hear, and find a time
may be ten times found, by being ever kept, it is
It shall not live.
I pray you, is my master yet return'd?
Than is thy strange apparent cruelty,
Came on my guard, and at thy tent is now
You promised, when you parted with the king,
But, madam, where is Warwick then become?
Hail to thee, lady! and the grace of heaven,
Or like a creature native and indued
Dumain is mine, as sure as bark on tree.
Lay
And Warwick, doing what you gave in charge,
Come, my Hippolyta: what cheer, my love?
But whither shall we then?
This was well done, my bird.
Anger's my meat, I sup upon myself,
Niggard of question, but, of our demands,
displeased them, as they use to do the players in
This expedition's charge.
And straight am nothing: but whate'er I be,
But few now give so great ones. My barge stays,
Saint Bennet, sir, may put you in mind, one, two, three.
True, made the lame to leap and fly away.
as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
I never was nor never will be false.
Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe,
How chance Moonshine is gone before Thisbe comes
And for your rapier most especially,
Witty, courteous, liberal, full of spirit.
Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you.
So far as thou wilt speak it.
All the whole army stood agazed on him:
that now men grow hard-hearted and will lend nothing
Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest.
With his next vantage.
Speak, captain, for his life, and I will thee requite.
decorum, and fortune him accordingly!
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase,
One of our souls had wander'd in the air.
Forgive my general and exceptless rashness,
It may not be.
Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife's son,
Come on, there is sixpence for you: let's have a song.
The French are bravely in their battles set,
Enter CATESBY
This is the feast that I have bid her to,
Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place:
This fellow had a Volscian to his mother,
Thou liest, thou art not colted, thou art uncolted.
Then patiently hear my impatience.
Which, as thou know'st, unjustly must be spilt.
Goes all decorum.
this, it shall seem to signify.
Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,
Master Page, I am glad to see you: much good do it
And give us notice of his inclination:
Thou makest thy knife keen, but no metal can,
Whom, like a school-boy, you may over-awe.
A king of beasts, indeed, if aught but beasts,
I fear, with dancing is a little heated.
May we not get access to her, my lord?
Giving a letter
Yea, forsooth, an your mistership be emperial.
must serve me to feed on.
Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him
Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
in my shirt.
No, heaven forfend! I would not kill thy soul.
You can say none of this: well, grant it then
My widow-comfort, and my sorrows' cure!
That did disrobe the lion of that robe!
Monster, I do smell all horse-piss, at
My purposes do draw me much about:
As I hope
Ay, and amid this hurly I intend
So please you, madam,
Words, life and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
spin for her living.
And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held
Thou art too noble to conserve a life
a good house, and for his ransom he will give you
Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,
himself for your succession in Denmark?
Nothing, neither way.
was up so early: he cannot choose but take this
Answer your summons, Juno does command:
Many times, madam.
Reason becomes the marshal to my will
Under their sweet shade, Aaron, let us sit,
My father, as nurse said, did never fear,
O, break! O, break!
What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
A lie, you are rough and hairy. Let me have no
Exit
Comes not that blood as modest evidence
He shall not breathe infection in this air
I will yet do you service.
Framed in the prodigality of nature,
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
Monday, my lord,
Is full of weeds, her fairest flowers choked up,
The multitude, beside themselves with fear,
By our proceeding in hostility,
As he shall think by our true diligence
Begin it with weak straws: what trash is Rome,
Exit Servant
Exit FENTON
teach me, I will execute, and it shall go hard but I
To put apart these your attendants, I
So much to my good comfort, as it is
So sacred as it is, I have done sin:
Alone, it was the subject of my theme,
I think I told your lordship a year since, how much
You may, I may not, you are yet unsworn.
Of grievous penalties, in lieu whereof,
sovereign mistress of effects, throws a more safer
this pipe?
By the northern blasts twice o'er.
I offer'd to awaken his regard
My vows are equal partners with thy vows.
How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour,
Still ride in triumph over all mischance.
Like an old tale: but it appears she lives,
Ha!
I speak my good lord cardinal to this point,
Of all say'd yet, I wish thee happiness!
Enter DUKE OF YORK, attended
The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
women's modesty, and gave such orderly and
Why seek'st thou to possess me with these fears?
Why would you be so fond to overcome
observe, I give thee warning on't.
Who, tendering their own worth from where they were glass'd,
yet I wrong him to call him poor, they say the
Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets,
all he was in woman's apparel, I would not have had
That policy may either last so long,
O, 'tis a fault too too unpardonable!
This milky gentleness and course of yours
Hath he set bounds betwixt their love and me?
This is strange now: do you two know how you are
Nay, I'll fit you,
That honour saved may upon asking give?
there were wealth enough for the purchase, or merit
Unto the citizens, who haply may
And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it.
To the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you
Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias,
Pray you, without any more virginal fencing, will
Which is the ladder to all high designs,
No part of him but will be shame in me.
But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice?
I have done the deed. Didst thou not hear a noise?
Had answer'd for his deed: now 'tis awake
see thee again.
Aside
he would not have spoke such a word.
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up,
Yes, in truth it is, sir.
That shall I do, my liege. Stay, Salisbury,
And even in kind love I do conjure thee,
Yet I was mortally brought forth, and am
And Lewis a prince soon won with moving words.
Enter a Messenger
Welcome, Sir Diomed! here is the lady
That we can call these delicate creatures ours,
Where, ere we do repose us, we will write
If you think fit, or that it may be done,
One drop of blood drawn from thy country's bosom
Praise him that got thee, she that gave thee suck:
For learning me your language!
Your oaths are pass'd, and now subscribe your names,
The splitting rocks cower'd in the sinking sands
Enter LOVELL
Merely in hate, 'gainst any of us all,
This was not counterfeit: there is too great
I must not believe you:
he smells like a fish, a very ancient and fish-
For riches strew'd herself even in the streets,
Please you repeat their names, I'll show my mind
Theretake it to you, trenchers, cups, and all,
Against the senseless winds shalt grin in vain,
Who can impress the forest, bid the tree
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
Sir Richard, what think you? have you beheld,
This eye shoots forth! how big imagination
My father's love is enough to honour him: enough!
Pray you, do so: she's a very tattling woman.
Make the hoar leprosy adored, place thieves
And more diversity of sounds, all horrible,
Tuesday, a morris for May-day, as the nail to his
But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
Nay, he must bear you company. The king
That have outlived the eagle, page thy heels,
I am sprited with a fool.
henceforth eat no fish of fortune's buttering.
I come to visit the afflicted spirits
and between these main parcels of dispatch effected
There wanteth but a mean to fill your song.
the worst'?
but duteous, and true preferment shall tender itself
Out of myself, press me to death with wit.
The strawberry grows underneath the nettle
What, strike his wife!
While other jests are something rank on foot,
Now, by the world--
Are they not lamely writ?
What said Northumberland as touching Richmond?
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
Here a' comes, methinks, and the queen with him.
My mistress here lies murder'd in her bed,--
And renowned be thy grave!
'What fates await the Duke of Suffolk?'
His better doth not breathe upon the earth.
We have been up and down to seek thee, for we are
And I for sorrow sung,
Leonato's: commend me to him and tell him I will
Which else would post until it had return'd
Enter TROILUS
That bids me be of comfort any more.
Such as the fury of ungovern'd youth
Of my lord general.
The youngest son of Priam, a true knight,
Nay, in the body of this fleshly land,
Profaning this most honourable order,
ANTIPHOLUS
trumpet's sound, we shall to 't presently.
By my penny of observation.
But silence, like a Lucrece knife,
Must be supplyant: the words of your commission
Made me neglect my studies, lose my time,
I am a spirit of no common rate,
I say thy husband: dost understand the word?
Lucentio is your name, of whence, I pray?
Learn how 'tis held, and what they are that must
Thou shouldst a husband take by my consent,
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
Exeunt Citizens
Drunk!
SCENE V. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
to be married to hell?
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
Strike up the drums, and let the tongue of war
So bad a death argues a monstrous life.
Do call it valiant fury: but, for certain,
Rests by you only to be qualified:
Doth live again in thee: long mayst thou live
with an unpitied whipping, for you have been a
O blood-besotted Neapolitan,
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
This gentleman, whom I call Polydore,
That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
upon too trivial motion, one that converses more
I do refer me to the oracle:
Upon agreement from us to his liking,
Will you bestow them friendly on Andronicus?
Not Iscariot, sir.
That ever wretched age hath look'd upon.
Hail, all you state of Greece! what shall be done
such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
Which you before so urged, lies in his answer.
Kept in a dark house, visited by the priest,
Exit Murderer
And Walter's dagger was not come from sheathing:
One Angelo, a goldsmith: do you know him?
Or, like obedient subjects, follow him
Not one word more, my maids, break off, break off.
Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
If you be pleased, retire into my cell
Tying him to aught, so putting him to rage,
Not unlike,
Have taken treasure from her lips--
Content.
What's he?
He is the wiser man, master doctor: he is a curer of
If that his head have ear in music,--doubtless
master: Anne is a good girl, and I wish--
Unto their lords, by them accomplished:
stooping for, there it lies in your eye, if not, be
And how does your content
which he thinks is a patent for his sauciness, and,
What is your gracious pleasure?
Comb down his hair, look, look! it stands upright,
I say, at once let your brief plagues be mercy,
Enter SILVIA
make my eyes look red, that it may be thought I have
But fear the sword like me, he'll scarcely look on't.
Of our proceedings here: on the marketplace,
for me here to-day? much upon this time have
Here comes Baptista: set your countenance, sir.
As she lived peerless,
Pink for flower.
Or thou goest to the orange or mill.
Farewell, gentle cousin.
Well then, I pray, your price o' the consulship?
'Faith, for their poverty, I know not where they had
My lord!
The labour we delight in physics pain.
Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
But what of Cicero? shall we sound him?
Exit
Which, to be spoke, would torture thee.
To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,
Yet such extenuation let me beg,
And turn'd crown'd kings to merchants.
By virtue, thou enforcest laughter, thy silly
The fold stands empty in the drowned field,
sir?
[Within]  And you said no.
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
As well at London bridge as at the Tower.
Among my maids: full little, God knows, looking
sir. My master hath appointed me to go to Saint
If he had done or said any thing amiss, he desired
God knows, in anguish, pain and agony.
Lavinia, though you left me like a churl,
But think her bond of chastity quite crack'd,
buried her grandam, to fast, like one that takes
What, ho, I say! peace in this prison!
man i' the world.
He hath against himself.
I come to tender it and my appliance
This after me, when I have writ my name
That none but I and my companion maid
Some time I shall sleep out, the rest I'll whistle.
I found it not.
Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies,
How dear a lover of my lord your husband,
[Reads]
And drave great Mars to faction.
cutting the web. After this, the vengeance on the
SCENE II. Before the walls of Athens.
No, truly.
For holy offices I have a time, a time
Ay, but not enough.
Good mother, be content, it is no more
Against this proud protector, with my sword!
Insolent villain!
slower, and, as I say, retire with me to my
Enter ELBOW, and Officers with FROTH and POMPEY
To be revenged upon her. For when fools Shall--
tragedians of the city.
all sorts enchantingly beloved, and indeed so much
mortal arbitrement, but nothing of the circumstance more.
Would have him punished. And now to our French causes:
Go, go, provide.
The regent made in Mytilene
He wrought better that made the painter, and yet
Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth:
Enter WARWICK and OXFORD, with French soldiers
Of what a monarchy you are the head:
Would I had never trod this English earth,
I will not go to-day, and ere I do,
They all read their letters
We'll say our song the whilst. Brother, begin.
more, proceed accordingly.
And I shall lose my life for want of language,
But mine it will, that no exploit have done:
Yea, or to paint himself? for the which, I hear
My sighs and tears and will not once relent?
Please it your majesty to give me leave,
So please your lordship to accept our duty.
O, you have lived in desolation here,
Away, inhuman dog! unhallow'd slave!
I pray you, bring me on the way a little,
And that we have a curse in having her:
Alisander the conqueror! You will be scraped out of
In such a righteous fashion as I do,
stone, I strike it, and it hurts my hand. O, the
Under the surly Gloucester's governance?
Now, sir! what make you here?
Corrupters of my faith! you shall no more
yours, then yours is France and you are mine.
I faint almost to death.
Why do you look so strange upon your wife?
Do so,
Hath this brave manage, this career, been run.
Have misbecomed our oaths and gravities,
Armado o' th' one side,--O, a most dainty man!
Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away? He
Enter PAGE and MISTRESS PAGE
What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler, thou,
not hurt: it is a thoroughfare for steel, if it be not hurt.
You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me:
Upon whose grave thou vow'dst pure chastity.
not so much as a ducat for delivering your letter:
not, for the wealth of Athens, I had done't now.
Speak, good Master Brook: I shall be glad to be
Stay here.
To front this present time.
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
I am commanded here, and kept a coil with
And by the merit of vile gold, dross, dust,
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds,
He has betray'd your business, and given up,
Expect even here, where is a kingly patient:
And my large kingdom for a little grave,
Have found the ground of study's excellence
Stir not until the signal.
We can afford no more at such a price.
Women are made to bear, and so are you.
An idle lord. I swear.
Would not 'scape censure, nor the redresses sleep,
Witness this army of such mass and charge
Is thine, if thou wilt ha't.
I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's
ANTIPHOLUS
Betideth here in absence of thy friend,
Whose reverence even the head-lugg'd bear would lick,
Fair Queen of England, worthy Margaret,
and bleed to death upon. Now, the dry serpigo on
As are companions noted and most known
To view with hollow eye and wrinkled brow
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
And time to speak it in: you rub the sore,
Now, all the plagues that in the pendulous air
Lord Warwick, on thy shoulder will I lean,
Strikes him
My lord, this argues conscience in your grace,
To scape his hands where I was like to die.
First, let me tell you whom you have condemn'd:
We did observe. Cousin Aumerle,
Jove sometimes went disguised, and why not I?
Talk with a ruffian at her chamber-window
Looking the way her harmless young one went,
Crossing the sea from England into France,
And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance.
Cry within
Have stood to charity, and display'd the effects
At seventeen years many their fortunes seek,
I prithee, grieve, to make me merry, York.
[Aside]  I do not like her. She doth think she has
Let there be gall enough in thy ink, though thou
Enter SILVIA, VALENTINE, THURIO, and SPEED
O most pernicious woman!
To taste of too.
They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold
'Tis the French Dauphin sueth to thee thus.
man with wishing, therefore I will die a woman with grieving.
And did my brother Bedford toil his wits,
Have I not hideous death within my view,
Nothing.
I'll never tell you.
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
and weighty.
have sent to thee, to receive the meed of
Pray, sir, in what?
That may discover such integrity:
But dare all imminence that gods and men
How now! where's your master?
There they always use to discharge their
Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother,
Are newly grown to love: the condemn'd Pompey,
Too low a mistress for so high a servant.
[Aside to CLEOPATRA]  'Tis one of those odd
Indeed, madam?
There's nothing situate under heaven's eye
Our simple supper ended, give me leave
What is 'lapis,' William?
Be friends, you English fools, be friends: we have
Out of his envy's reach, I do oppose
They say he is already in the forest of Arden, and
And wander'd hither to an obscure plot,
Nay look not so upon me, we shall hear of your
Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,
indeed, my father did something smack, something
So please your grace, my ancient,
So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing,
Her face, like heaven, enticeth thee to view
Why seems it so particular with thee?
And here I swear by all the Roman gods,
Thou great, and wise, to hear Ulysses speak.
I tore them from their bonds and cried aloud
My women may be with me, for you see
Thou art a cure fit for a king.
If he suppose that I have pleaded truth,
She is so self-endeared.
Springs out into fast gait, then stops again,
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,
Luke's, to bid the priest be ready to come against
Exeunt
Gifts that God gives.
A most extracting frenzy of mine own
Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
That they have caught the king: and who knows yet
You are a spirit, I know: when did you die?
But thou slew'st Tybalt, there are thou happy too:
I am alone the villain of the earth,
this dream: it shall be called Bottom's Dream,
That numberless upon me stuck as leaves
If that be all the difference in his love,
Ha?
Even now we housed him in the abbey here,
My lord, you know I love you.
And now, to add more measure to your woes,
Die neither mother, wife, nor England's queen!
As is a winged messenger of heaven
Thou hast harp'd my fear aright: but one
The purpose I then follow'd. That I was he,
Ay, that change is the spite.
In aspiration lifts him from the earth.
Enter the KING
That going shall be used with feet.
which is in the keeping of Paulina,--a piece many
Employ'd you where high profits might come home,
Off with that bauble, throw it under-foot.
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
Soft! whither away so fast?
Cannot a plain man live and think no harm,
Sir Gilbert Talbot, Sir William Stanley,
Forbids to dwell upon: yet remember this,
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
Exeunt Gentlemen
when she's fallen out with her husband. Your noble
the way? Is it sad, and few words? or how? The
Thou hold'st a place, for which the pained'st fiend
lanthorn is the moon, I, the man in the moon, this
After a storm, quaff'd off the muscadel
Before God! and, in my mind, very wise.
Once more, what news?
You shall prevail,
If none, he'll say in Troy when he retires,
By guileful fair words peace may be obtain'd.
Of education all the grace,
As captain shall: simply the thing I am
Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear,
That unassailable holds on his rank,
To whose hands have you sent the lunatic king? Speak.
He was a wight of high renown,
No remedy, but you will,--give me the office
My thought, whose murder yet is but fantastical,
Where is he?
How in his suit he scorn'd you, but your loves,
That summons thee to heaven or to hell.
A damned saint, an honourable villain!
The gods best know,--
And teach them how to war. And you, good yeoman,
Go call him hither.
Content.
No, by my life.
And so did I.
such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the
To think that you have aught but Talbot's shadow
have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings
You made in a day, my lord, whole towns to fly.
Than the rich-jewel'd of Darius,
The king's physician: as he pass'd along,
They tax our policy, and call it cowardice,
Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd,
Macbeth.
Enter HAMLET and GUILDENSTERN
To THYREUS
Why, that's well said.
Had time cohered with place or place with wishing,
Some one be ready with a costly suit
We would purge the land of these drones, that rob
And by my body's action teach my mind
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
SCENE I. The forest.
It were enough to fright the realm of France:
Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go, and
You may as well do anything most hard,
ANTIPHOLUS
Most abject in regard and dear in use!
Is that the naked fellow?
Ten thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon,
Thus we set on, Camillo, to the sea-side.
SCENE II. Athens. QUINCE'S house.
No more. Good night:
You shall read us the will, Caesar's will.
And far surmounts our labour to attain it.
There's for thy pains.
And lift my soul to heaven. Lead on, o' God's name.
Till Birnam forest come to Dunsinane.
with malice and malice forced with wit turn him to?
not have hit, I can watch you for telling how I took
Dance
Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
'Fair cousin'? I am greater than a king:
would open his lips when he put it into his mouth,
Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
Or lay these bones in an unworthy urn,
Out, rascal dogs!
And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian tents,
Our dance of custom round about the oak
Flies where you bid it, I find that she, which late
I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.
Nicanor? no.
Meanwhile must be an earnest motion
is to accuse your mothers, which is most infallible
professes a hot-house, which, I think, is a very ill house too.
Well, God-a-mercy.
May here find truth too. Those that come to see
The reverent care I bear unto my lord
She is not, madam.
They belch us. Look you, Cassio and my husband!
Whose souls do bear an equal yoke Of love,
Do you not read some tokens of my son
Soft! who comes here?
Alas,  good master, my wife desired some damsons,
now I let go your hand, I am barren.
[Sings]
Pretty and apt.
that cannot I help. Well, proceed.
Your betters, sir.
To KING OF FRANCE
I am appointed him to murder you.
My name is Mary, sir.
With how depraved a quality--O Regan!
That laid the sentence of dread banishment
you, for I think I have taken my last draught in
Than ever you or yours were by me wrong'd!
Nay, but it is not so.
Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty:
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, WARWICK, MONTAGUE, CLARENCE, EXETER, and OXFORD
But Jove was never slain, as thou shalt be.
'Tis more, 'tis more, his son is elder, sir,
Speak, if you can: what are you?
Believe me, you are marvellously changed.
This union shall do more than battery can
From any other foul unlawful touch
Let this be granted, and Achilles' horse
You are like to have a thin and slender pittance.
Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows:
Hast prisoner held, fetter'd in amorous chains
There is not chastity enough in language
A good lenten answer: I can tell thee where that
pretty jest your daughter told us of.
Thou hast look'd thyself into my grace,
was full of jests, and gipes, and knaveries, and
Like Romans, neither foolish in our stands,
For lately we were bound, as you are now
SONG.
Why dost thou ask again?
Love takes the meaning in love's conference.
Almost too small for sight: the murmuring surge,
And charges him my lord, with such a time
My plight requires it. Do not weep, good fools,
He may command me as my sovereign,
Is not to leave't undone, but keep't unknown.
Immoment toys, things of such dignity
As surfeit is the father of much fast,
friends, it shall be so far forth friendly
That were we talking of, and of his anger.
Tradition, form and ceremonious duty,
By my troth, sir, if I were to live this present
A jest's prosperity lies in the ear
And consequence of dread, that I committed
Go, and we'll have a posset for't soon at night, in
Re-enter OSWALD
By watching, weeping, tendance, kissing, to
Is my strict fast, I mean, my children's looks,
My shame will not be shifted with my sheet:
Of your entire affection to Bianca,
How now, my Lord of Worcester! 'tis not well
He shall do this, or else I do recant
And loves to grant, reprieve him from the wrath
DON
So safely ordered that there is no soul--
We, at the height, are ready to decline.
By Suffolk and the Cardinal Beaufort's means.
Enter ARTEMIDORUS, reading a paper
Cambio!
Foul disproportion thoughts unnatural.
Bid him not fear the separated councils
Exit
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
So good, so noble and so true a master?
or we run ourselves aground: bestir, bestir.
From Milan did supplant good Prospero,
Truly, fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it
As we with honour and respect may take,
To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs,
A choking gall and a preserving sweet.
Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
From plume-pluck'd Richard, who with willing soul
The pale companion is not for our pomp.
The law against it! But that her tender shame
But five and twenty. O God, thy arm was here,
Hath Death lain with thy wife. There she lies,
Cries 'come' to him that instantly must die.
Admit me Chorus to this history,
Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
Give me thy hand.
The god of soldiers,
you with a good name: to be a well-favoured man is
Foul subornation is predominant
But with all brief and plain conveniency
your servant.
Who undertakes you to your end.
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
You will do aught, this shall you do for me:
I should have been beholding to your paper.
have an exposition of sleep come upon me.
Though Page be a secure fool, an stands so firmly
Enter Widow and DIANA
Abroad? why then, women are more valiant
Let it be tenable in your silence still,
O brave Oliver,
Giving him a shilling
And being join'd, I'll thus your hopes destroy,
Why do they run away? this is a knavery of them to
That they of Rome are entered in our counsels
And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
To hear and see the matter.
God pless your majesty!
Written to bear along.
Thy murderous falchion smoking in his blood,
he! why, he hath a horse better than the
Thou sheer, immaculate and silver fountain,
And Britons strut with courage.
hath not a glimpse of, nor any man an attaint but he
Enter GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, ERPINGHAM, with all his host: SALISBURY and WESTMORELAND
For you must be our housewife.
Give me his gage: lions make leopards tame.
O, she is rich in beauty, only poor,
Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom:
They may astonish these fell-lurking curs:
But say this weed her love from Valentine,
I would he knew that I had saved his brother!
A noble fellow, I warrant him.
Those that we bury back, our monuments
Let him on.
Hath got the voice in hell for excellence:
Has had most favourable and happy speed:
But to win time
As e'er I heard in madness.
She alone knew this,
Then thus:
better told.
I am not a-hungry, I thank you, forsooth. Go,
we term it, his friends whilst he's in directitude.
Enter a Sailor
And prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
Is this certain?
philosophical persons, to make modern and familiar,
That time,--O times!--
For thou wast got i' the way of honesty.
ACT I
Ha' not you seen, Camillo,--
In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.
I served my king, he would not in mine age
Nay, hear you, Kate: in sooth you scape not so.
been a rod to her friends, you have not indeed loved
No, sir, I think the meat wants that I have.
I'll tell her the next time I see her: for my part,
And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well:
By those Welshwomen done as may not be
A domineering pedant o'er the boy,
No, no.
this youth, I blame ye not:
Than plural faith which is too much by one:
But something may be done that we will not:
But a hare that is hoar
the luggage of our camp: the French might have a
in all reason should have quenched her love, hath,
My present fancies.
It is the humane way: the other course
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,
Thy nephew and right royal sovereign.
With his own single hand he'ld take us in
Who, raging with thy tears, and they with them,
God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
To whom he sung, in rude harsh-sounding rhymes,
Why, this is very midsummer madness.
Ay, come, quick.
For the which, as I told you, Antonio shall be bound.
And from that womb where you imprison'd were
Swart, like my shoe, but her face nothing half so
Son, I have overheard what hath passed between you
A vessel rides fast by, but not prepared
About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
plain-song of it.
I must not look to have, but, in their stead,
What colour for my visitation shall I
Next, Caius Cassius, do I take your hand,
I go, my lord, in heart desiring still
With quiet hours, for I do protest,
'Tis thou that rigg'st the bark and plough'st the foam,
'Twas neither Charles nor yet the duke I named,
The world hath noted, and your name is great
grey iniquity, that father ruffian, that vanity in
argument in,
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
What here you've heard to her.
With slaughter coupled to the name of kings.
Was he met there? his train? Camillo with him?
I mean, to man, he had not apprehension
Set me where you stand.
Take these again, for to the noble mind
gods! O fine villain! A silken doublet! a velvet
But bent all offices to honour her.
No, by the holy rood, thou know'st it well,
in him, that with the mischief of your person it
Am like a prophet suddenly enrapt
signior, walk aside with me: I have studied eight
Hereditary ours.
But I of these will wrest an alphabet
Does not attend my taking. Whiles I may 'scape,
I say, my sovereign, York is meetest man
He that will think to live till he be old,
God save your honour!
it will let this man live! But how out of this can she avail?
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
And sees fast by a butcher with an axe,
Before we hear him, of some things of weight
I'll raise the preparation of a war
At our importance hither is he come,
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
Accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
What is thy soul of adoration?
[Aside]  The late queen's gentlewoman,
To the ground, mistress.
Enter a Sheriff
Some other is more fit.
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
'Tis so, they are afoot.
I will be assured I may, and, that I may be assured,
Thanks, madam, well.
And she shall be sole victress, Caesar's Caesar.
I'll meet you at that place some hour hence.
And speak I will, I am no child, no babe:
To make thee seek it.'
It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
But if the cause be not good, the king himself hath
For I will raise her statue in pure gold,
Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
Thou'rt kind.
Both for your honour better and your cause,
Of good Polixenes, and my ground to do't
Here's my son, sir, a poor boy,--
Thine own for ever, and I, thy Caliban,
I love Aliena, say with her that she loves me,
Upon thy cheek lay I this zealous kiss,
a man: surely I think you have charms, la, yes, in truth.
Let my tears stanch the earth's dry appetite,
Of many a bold one, whose kinsmen have made suit
Nestor-like aged in an age of care,
Quicken'd with youthful spleen and warlike rage,
Will modestly discover to yourself
And so did I.
But thou shalt wear it as a herald's coat,
With curses in her mouth, tears in her eyes,
Exeunt Servants
save thy grace,--majesty I should say, for grace
Appear thus to us?
Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither,
That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit:
Heaven, from thy endless goodness, send prosperous
A wonder, lady! lo, upon thy wish,
And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
So, when this loose behavior I throw off
But Dover castle: London hath received,
And such a wall, as I would have you think,
I shall take it, sir: we have used our throats in Egypt.
As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
Well worthy the best heir o' the world, should not
My sword, made weak by my affection, would
Kill what I love?--a savage jealousy
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Come, let them be opinioned.
Why, fear not, man, I will not forfeit it:
By wondering how thou took'st it.
I am not an impostor that proclaim
No, my dear'st love,
The best, for the innocence.
Remember March, the ides of March remember:
Out of thy garments.
Why keep we her? the Grecians keep our aunt:
But did I never speak of all that time?
Of knaves once more, my cook and I'll provide.
No quarrel, but a slight contention.
More particulars
Speak then, prince Dauphin, can you love this lady?
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can,
Sluttery to such neat excellence opposed
For me, by this pale queen of night I swear,
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
An thou wert a lion, we would do so.
You that will be less fearful than discreet,
Hold, take this letter, early in the morning
With manacles thorough our streets, or else
Enter TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, and CHIRON, disguised
forth such fruit.
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
Your brother's son shall never reign our king,
thee the bucklers.
And I will chain these legs and arms of thine,
The pardon that I late pronounced here.
As he could make me with this eye or ear
As I foretold you, were all spirits and
Ay, and you hear him cog, see him dissemble,
Well, gentlemen,
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, HORTENSIO, and Servants
You make amends.
I pray you, one of you question yond man
With rounds of waxen tapers on their heads,
Heavens keep him from these beasts!
Exeunt King Henry, Blunt, and train
Why, now thou diest as bravely as Titinius,
Go, get you to your house, be gone, away!
Either they must be dieted like mules
I do.
They are not near my conscience, their defeat
Ay, but the feet were lame and could not bear
Towards our assistance we do seize to us
By heaven, the wonder in a mortal eye!
And we will fear no poison, which attends
And makest an oath the surety for thy truth
His glassy essence, like an angry ape,
I must leave you.
Was lineal of the Lady Ermengare,
And at thy feet I kneel, with tears of joy,
Romans, countrymen, and lovers! hear me for my
Ha! Marcius coming home!
Arise to let him in: he is call'd up.
And I with him.
Who were those went by?
'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters,
Good night and welcome, both at once, to those
Forbear, Seleucus.
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
I ever saw so noble.
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Presumptuous dame, ill-nurtured Eleanor,
So I by that, it is my day, my life.
Yes,
living by the copulation of cattle, to be bawd to a
Now for the honour of the forlorn French!
Full fathom five thy father lies,
Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself.
Neither entitled in the other's heart.
well cut,' he would say I lied: this is called the
But, Titus, I have touched thee to the quick,
Never to lie and take his natural rest
For never yet one hour in his bed
He reputes me a cannon, and the bullet, that's he:
If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life,
I am content, so the maiden cities you talk of may
With such a hell of pain and world of charge,
Enforce their charity. Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!
Of officer and office, set all hearts i' the state
How now, my lord! is't not after midnight?
Whether Bassanio had not once a love.
Enter DULL with a letter, and COSTARD
Cunning.
Am I the motive of these tears, my lord?
Exeunt
Where's Caius Marcius?
Then do we sin against our own estate,
I say, away! Go on, I'll follow thee.
Nay, the man hath no wit that cannot, from the
Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with
Unhappy Claudio! wretched Isabel!
For testimony of her foul proceedings:
thousand pound. Didst perceive?
Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
Dost thou think so, spirit?
All have not offended,
I'll trust to your conditions: be whores still,
SCENE IV. Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.
At whose conception, till Lucina reign'd,
but in the plainer and simpler kind of people, the
Why then to-night
And then the end is known. Come, ho! away!
My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence,
On pain to be found false and recreant,
Emmanuel.
Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio.
my pack will hold.
To mitigate the justice of thy plea,
Exit
For God's sake, lords, convey my tristful queen,
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
Exit Cupid
Good fortune and the favour of the king
They are all couched in a pit hard by Herne's oak,
'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art but a scurvy fellow.'
To be high-steward, next, the Duke of Norfolk,
Wisdom and fortune combating together,
It might, but it is not now.
There's but one down, the son is fled.
lend me thy sword.
Desire him to go in, trouble him no more
His fits, his frenzy, and his bitterness?
I love thee, I have spoke it
You pay him then. That's a perilous shot out of an
to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream
As we do air, fast as 'twas minister'd,
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
To hear the sea-maid's music.
ACT IV
thee, or in bastinado, or in steel, I will bandy
Upon your oath of service to the pope,
O, fear him not,
Paddock calls.
Bounding between the two moist elements,
There is a litter ready, lay him in 't,
The minute I began.
And after one hour more 'twill be eleven,
By sea and land, supplying every stage
'When from my finger you can get this ring
If this be known to you and your allowance,
Marry, thus: when it stands well with him, it
Hector's a gallant man.
Good morrow, fairest: sister, your sweet hand.
Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st,
Lizard's leg and owlet's wing,
He shall see none to fear.
Exeunt
Hath brought me to thy hearth, not out of hope--
Free from oppression or the stroke of war,
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
Petruchio, I shall be your ben venuto.
Our hard-ruled king. Again, there is sprung up
Why are you virtuous? why do people love you?
Item, Bread,        ob.
Is it mine, or Valentine's praise,
Boult, has she any qualities?
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Within the limits of yon lime and stone:
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons,
And thou art but of low degree:
To taste the fruit of yon celestial tree,
My brother Montague shall post to London:
Nor can imagination form a shape,
And, ignorant of his birth and parentage,
Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry
Re-enter Clown
again, and after it again, and over and over he
Part shame, part spirit renew'd, that some,
And he is welcome. What! is this the man?
Meantime, but think how I may do thee good,
Engaging and redeeming of himself
Most sorry, you have broken from his liking
Honest as either, to purge him of that humour
myself. I pray you, tell Benedick of it, and hear
The midwife and the nurse well made away,
Allegiance in them, their curses now
rest of your fees, O gods--the senators of Athens,
What is this? sport?
Let all untruths stand by thy stained name,
Not Cassio kill'd! then murder's out of tune,
beguile Nature of her custom, so perfectly he is her
The trumpet any more. Pray you, Emilia,
Fair lady,--
Killing care and grief of heart
Re-enter LADY MACBETH
Lionel Duke of Clarence: next to whom
While she with harlots feasted in my house.
Bearing the king's will from his mouth expressly?
Who can do good on him?
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
How near is he, Mistress Page?
Do as I bid you, or you'll move me else.
For the Lord's tokens on you do I see.
In favour's like the work we have in hand,
With their own nobleness, which could have turn'd
And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,
He'll make a proper man: the best thing in him
O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note,
To bait me with this foul derision?
Not for their own demerits, but for mine,
In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
Such a Sebastian was my brother too,
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
Then lay me forth: although unqueen'd, yet like
Her enemies' ranks,--I must withdraw and weep
She is dead too, our sovereign.
That I may back to Athens by daylight,
Why, it stood by her: she has light by her
to depute Cassio in Othello's place.
Hath such force and blessed power.
Pray you, let's hear.
Be every man himself?
To-morrow: now, if you could wear a mind
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
O Cressida! but that the busy day,
would fain see it once, an please God of his grace
I thought you had been willing to resign.
Perforce be their acquaintance. These exactions,
Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house.
Exeunt
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
I will incontinently drown myself.
beyond credit,--
That's most certain, and with you, next month with us.
Doing is activity, and he will still be doing.
Tarry I here, I but attend on death:
to hear his monstrous devices.
And hums, as who should say 'You'll rue the time
Exit TYRREL
Exit
Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk,
Whom we have left protectors of the king,
SCENE II. A room in the Garter Inn.
Come on, then, horse and chariots let us have,
Take your own way.
Varro's Servant	How dost, fool?
The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
Where shivering cold and sickness pines the clime,
Be made as soft as yours and let their palates
But graciously to know I am no better.
Many a bounteous year must be employ'd
Well moused, Lion.
Be gone, I say: the gods have heard me swear.
Enter Priest,  and c. in procession, the Corpse of  OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following, KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, their trains,  and c
Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me.
What, doth she swoon? use means for her recovery.
might take two thieves kissing.
He said he was gentle, but unfortunate,
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Yet still she is the moon, and I the man.
And this the cranny is, right and sinister,
Nay, now you are too flat
When man was wish'd to love his enemies!
To her whose worth makes other worthies nothing,
Commend me to thy brother, Edmund York.
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt,
In earnest of further benefit,
To MOTH
So, now they come:
As I can take it with another herb,
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
So many hours must I sport myself,
Speak your griefs softly: I do know you well.
Exeunt
Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
The Lord Grandpre.
My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
Because the king, forsooth, will have it so.
There must be needs a like proportion
Profaned, dishonour'd, and the third usurp'd.
I pray you, who, my lord?
They are of Norway, sir.
Ha! what has he sent? I am so much endeared to
Nay, women are frail too.
by Sir Toby.
This letter, madam, craves a speedy answer,
The noble knot he made.
Bear witness, all that have not hearts of iron,
With all their honourable point of ignorance
Not one word more of the consumed time.
And subjects none abroad: pray you, look in.
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
With your fine fancies quaintly eche:
She shall be married to this noble earl.
Ay, marry, I'll be gone about it straight.
I understand thee well, and be thou sure,
Enter a Pursuivant
Most noble Caesar! We'll revenge his death.
Upon the spot of this enforced cause,--
Thou told'st me, when we came from horse, the place
It shall not die.
Or bring your latter hazard back again
Aside
Take their examination yourself and bring it me: I
English cudgel: you find it otherwise, and
Out of self-bounty, be abused, look to't:
Believe not so.
It is your pleasure to command me in.
Was I, in sooth? and I was the first that lost thee.
[Aside]  A little more than kin, and less than kind.
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, and Attendants
why, this fellow has banished two on's daughters,
With the defunct, or sleep upon the dead.
Among which terms he used his lavish tongue
And all combined, save what thou must combine
Success or loss, what is or is not, serves
night-raven, come what plague could have come after
Was his great ancestor.
Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave:
Do you know, sirrah, where Lieutenant Cassio lies?
sworn brother, the people, to earn a dearer
Go thou with her to the west end of the wood,
and, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be,
Was heavy on me: thou art so far before
For if we too be one and thou play false,
I shall be with you presently, good master puppy.
Needs must I like it well: I weep for joy
And strong encounter of my amorous tale:
Ay, madam, so you stumble not unheedfully.
Commit me for committing honour, trust it,
Amen!
Our ears vouchsafe it.
I thank your majesty, and her, my lord:
fights not. For Pistol, he hath a killing tongue
I must then to the Grecians?
I never spake bad word, nor did ill turn
sirrah, for all you are my man, go wait upon my
Congreeing in a full and natural close,
And think they are my sons, are none of mine,
Or vainly comes the admired princess hither.
I am no less in blood than thou art, Edmund,
I saw't i' the orchard.
pack, a conspiracy against me: now shall the devil
Seven of my people, with an obedient start, make
Condition, I had gone barefoot to India.
I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
lead, and as heavy too: God keep lead out of me! I
Enter SPEED and LAUNCE severally
you are false knaves.
Shall I forget myself to be myself?
As I would buy thee, view thee limb by limb.
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part,
Therefore, lord constable, haste on Montjoy.
But wherefore waste I time to counsel thee,
howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests
Call him hither to me, soldier.
Come, wilt thou see me ride?
And these the showers to bring it on. Be cheerful.
I wish you the peace of mind, most royal couplement!
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
Enter HECTOR
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
Pray, sir, be patient.
Where, he shall see, the boar will use us kindly.
What cannoneer begot this lusty blood?
Why then for Venus' sake, give me a kiss,
Fairly answer'd,
A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
That the false housewife Fortune break her wheel,
A most toad-spotted traitor. Say thou 'No,'
Of stern injustice and confused wrong.
That long to move.
Wallon and Picardy are friends to us,
Your letters did withhold our breaking forth,
and thou art as full of envy at his greatness as
Welcome father.
To thy good truth and honour. Devilish Macbeth
'Tis a shrewd doubt, though it be but a dream.
Or let me die, to look on death no more!
Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth,
Are joyfully return'd.
Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years, take this key,
warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?
to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on,
world's end? I will go on the slightest errand now
And, for an entrance to my entertainment,
labelled to my will: as, item, two lips,
Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall
Drawing all things to it. I'll go in and weep,--
moon, or, rather, the sun, and not the moon, for it
Hadst thou been meek, our title still had slept,
great preparation.
That haunted us in our familiar paths:
And did deserve his change: for what I have conquer'd,
Now 'gins to bite the spirits. I do beseech you
I will your serious and great business scant
To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts,
in his sides? is there yet another dotes upon
My practises ride easy! I see the business.
I love and hate her: for she's fair and royal,
A foolish thing was but a toy,
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
Nay, you shall have no hat.
Or let us lose it. We do here pronounce,
Ah, Luciana, did he tempt thee so?
'An Angelo for Claudio, death for death!'
Stands aside
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
To such whose place is under us, requires
Sir, this I hear, the king is come to his daughter,
To a rope's-end, sir, and to that end am I returned.
Go about it.
Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we
From Richard's night to Bolingbroke's fair day.
Hath he ask'd for me?
And, from that full meridian of my glory,
Who, in the conflict that it holds with death,
You will be there, I know.
To thee, Posthumus.
How will he scorn! how will he spend his wit!
Within my sword's length set him, if he 'scape,
Why had I not with charitable hand
Golden quoifs and stomachers,
spectators, the dish pays the shot.
May see the sea hath cast upon your coast.
Pray, draw near.
Which entered their frail shins: at last I left them
He would kiss you twenty with a breath.
the north star. I would not marry her, though she
[To ESCALUS]  What you have spoke I pardon: sit you down:
Exeunt
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot,
With such a brabbler.
The wronged Duke of Milan, Prospero:
Even from darkness.
It issues from the rancour of a villain,
As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs,
You logger-headed and unpolish'd grooms!
And his device, a wreath of chivalry,
I shall be much bound to you for't: I am one that
a heavy reckoning to make, when all those legs and
Exit
Enter a Messenger
As in revenge of thy ingratitude,
My ears are stopt and cannot hear good news,
that's all one. 'By the Lord, fool, I am not mad.'
Do glue themselves in sociable grief,
Thy pupil long? Hast thou not learn'd me how
Go not away. What have you there, my friend?
Can sleep so soundly as the wretched slave,
Even so, my tale is told.
this machine is to him, HAMLET.'
There were no suns to borrow of.
That you have no such mirrors as will turn
And substituted in the place of mine,
By urging me to fury: O, be gone!
But unto thee, Alencon, and the rest,
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
So I to her and so she yields to me,
for such store,
Do you think I'll be forsworn?
That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles,
Unless a brother should a brother dare
And great Troy shrieking.
For few men rightly temper with the stars:
not very well?
thee, Malvolio?
Then, sir,
Say I fear'd Caesar, honour'd him and loved him.
I shall unfold equal discourtesy
Ay, do, do, thou sodden-witted lord! thou hast no
That had a heart to love, and in that heart
Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords?
You do not give the cheer: the feast is sold
Between his purpose and his conscience,
Study to break it and not break my troth.
Pray you, come near: if I suspect without cause,
SCENE VI. Dunsinane. Before the castle.
Nay, nay, Octavia, not only that,--
Collars of SS.
Anticipating time with starting courage.
As I suppose, to Robert Faulconbridge,
come I to my mother: O, that she could speak now
Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge!
cracking the stones of the foresaid prunes,--
You did.
Your son-in-law is far more fair than black.
And I shall show you peace and fair-faced league,
From whence?
For I will touch thee but with reverent hands,
When that which makes me bend makes the king bow,
Bound me in servitude.
Keep there: now talk at pleasure of your safety.
You do blaspheme the good in mocking me.
Better than you yourself. Therefore, I pray you,
flesh and blood is not to be punished by him. Show
Blunt wedges rive hard knots: the seeded pride
dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning, got with
If I thou protector of this damned strumpet--
Whose want even kills me.
this head off from my shoulders.
'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'd
You men will never tarry.
The more she gives them speech. Where do you live?
Ravish our daughters?
Leave your prating: since these good men are
What bloody business ever.
A larger dare to our great enterprise,
Drest in a little brief authority,
Good my liege,
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends,
What say you? Hence,
You're welcome,
king, and take vanity the puppet's part against the
hand-saw--ecce signum! I never dealt better since
Into baboon and monkey.
And Richard falls in height of all his pride.
shall find us in our salt-water girdle: if you
What more commands he?
He might not but refuse you, but he protests he loves you
So Suffolk had thy heavenly company:
the courageous captain of compliments. He fights as
Ladies, a general welcome from his grace
By gar, 'tis good, vell said.
Which casket 'twas I chose, next, if I fail
Look who comes yonder: she shall be our messenger
Shall no man else be touch'd but only Caesar?
I am ashamed. O heavens! what have I done?
Where I have come, great clerks have purposed
We'll beat 'em into bench-holes: I have yet
Do so, it is a point of wisdom: fare you well.
Alas, a kind of godly jealousy--
I know thee not, why, then, should I betray thee?
Again, and bring me word how 'tis with her.
It is not lost, but what an if it were?
RICHARD
That bears recovery's name. But, since your kindness
First, sir, I pray,
I could interpret between you and your love, if I
gentleman of all temperance. But leave we him to
She moves
I speak to subjects, and a subject speaks,
'Tis pity of him.
Be this perpetual. What says our second daughter,
By the false faith of him I trusted most,
Enter SHYLOCK
against me, he stands there, like a mortar-piece, to
SCENE IV. Rome. Philario's house.
Dost thou desire her foully for those things
I pray you do.
Welcome, pure wit! thou partest a fair fray.
He to be earl marshal: you may read the rest.
What if I do not? as, indeed, I do not,
The throstle with his note so true,
I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
The centre is not big enough to bear
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
hanged, and then to confess.--I tremble at it.
True delight
Preferment goes by letter and affection,
The fixture of her eye has motion in't,
It is my business too. Farewell.
shrinks from him.
talk through the chink of a wall.
For your own reasons turn into your bosoms,
There was a yielding,--this admits no excuse.
the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and
In carrion-flies than Romeo: they my seize
Well, every one can master a grief but he that has
Stay but a little, I will come again.
Hath with his forged letters,--damn'd Pisanio--
For the gods are quick of ear, and I am sworn
Say no more:
That men would tell their children 'This is he,'
In fear our motion will be mock'd or carp'd at,
thy love? I could: shall I entreat thy love? I
nothing, is to have rich eyes and poor hands.
single: your abilities are too infant-like for
Why, then your uncle and the prince and Claudio
No excuse current, but to hang thyself.
Your native town you enter'd like a post,
Tripping up his heels
How dread an army hath enrounded him,
little yellow beard, a Cain-coloured beard.
I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart
What pain it cost, what danger. God's!
The rest do nothing--with this word 'Stand, stand,'
They call him Doricles, and boasts himself
direction. Be gone, and come when you are called.
A marriage 'twixt the Duke of Orleans and
An they have conspired together, I will not say you
Our town of Cicester in Gloucestershire,
And, among three, to love the worst of all,
Your hearts of sorrow and your eyes of tears:
wonder how thou darest venture to be drunk, not
Upon a tawny front: his captain's heart,
Faith, my lord,
My lord, cheer up your spirits: our foes are nigh,
Is of so flood-gate and o'erbearing nature
You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you
he were here, I would cudgel him like a dog, if he
I blame not her, she could say little less,
Pleaseth your highness, ay: here they are, madam:
Unscissor'd shall this hair of mine remain,
Of what is in her chamber nothing saves
Revolving this will teach thee how to curse.
The walls of thy dear honour, keep unshaked
'Tis pity they should take him for a stag.
Show not their mealy wings but to the summer,
I do entreat you, not a man depart,
Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee,
Am starved for meat, giddy for lack of sleep,
O happy vantage of a kneeling knee!
Let not our babbling dreams affright our souls:
All with weary task fordone.
To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practise:
Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his
The commons, like an angry hive of bees
Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
Sweet huntsman, Bassianus 'tis we mean--
Will but amount to five and twenty thousand,
When it was out,--'Let me not live,' quoth he,
As does a Briton peasant: so I'll fight
Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn,
Did, as he vouches, misreport your grace.
But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him:
My Lord of York, try what your fortune is.
That judgment cannot cure. Which thing to do,
Get thee hence, farewell.
unhappily, as of unnaturalness between the child
Unworthy thee,--if ever henceforth thou
Tell you the duke, shall prosper: bid him strive
I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, count,
I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son
Under the cool shade of a sycamore
And that my Lord of Norfolk?
Himself: what say'st thou to him?
Hail, King of Scotland!
And will he not come again?
are he, you are he.
And say'st it is not fit.
Yet be content.
Richard du Champ.
But to my mind, though I am native here
take him to be, he is Ajax.
What is your title?
How now! what letter are you reading there?
humbly give you leave to depart, and if a merry
Never.
I have a letter from Monsieur Biron to one Lady Rosaline.
Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at
miscarried, my creditors grow cruel, my estate is
Step into the chamber, Sir John.
Ay, it is no matter.
Your widow-dolour likewise be unwept!
But what's the matter, Clarence?  may I know?
You speak as if that I had slain my cousins.
I embrace you.
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to
Go make thyself like a nymph o' the sea: be subject
What were his marks?
Hast thou forgot thyself? is it so long?
But if the gods themselves did see her then
Cried, 'Via! we will do't, come what will come,'
Shall from this practise but make hard your heart:
Sir, sir, I will have law in Ephesus,
'Tis he and Cloten: malice and lucre in them
news in Rome? I have a note from the Volscian state,
Romans, of five and twenty valiant sons,
Mark then abounding valour in our English,
That vulture in you, to devour so many
By this so sickened their estates, that never
Present yourself, desire his service, tell him
Wake, my mistress!
We shall be late else, which I would not be,
Do not name Silvia thine, if once again,
Mistrust it not: for, sure, AEacides
Exceedingly well read, and profited
How then? shall he marry her?
Exit above
The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit,
Above a better gone, so must thy grave
You must not take for fire. From this time
myself, fidelicet myself, and the three party is,
He gives the bastinado with his tongue:
Exeunt
activity in question. What, billing again? Here's
Should by the minute feed on life and lingering
Those prisoners you shall keep.
My mourning and important tears hath pitied.
I feel such sharp dissension in my breast,
'Twas I that kill'd her.
A lord to a lord, a man to a man, stuffed with all
And watch withal, for, but I be deceived,
I wish we may: but yet have I a mind
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
And added years to his short banishment,
Most certain.
She is going, wench: pray, pray.
And marry her at Eton. Go send to Falstaff straight.
Such commendations as becomes a maid,
Advances to CAESAR
I wait the sharpest blow, Antiochus.
My lord?
And wish, for her sake more than for mine own,
Enter LE BEAU
Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old
Not true in love?
To this good purpose, that so fairly shows,
But am in that dimension grossly clad
'Sigeia tellus,' disguised thus to get your love,
But that it eats our victuals, I should think
appoint her to look out at her lady's chamber window.
If on the first, how heinous e'er it be,
Against what should ensue.
the truth?
As much as in him lies, from time to time
Such a mad marriage never was before:
I have touch'd the highest point of all my greatness,
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
Infecting one another, yea, reciprocally--
He was much fear'd by his physicians.
Anon, sir.
And sinks most lamentably. Had our general
Valiant I am.
By God's fair ordinance conjoin together!
Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland,
I feel this pin prick. Would I were assured
My reformation, glittering o'er my fault,
The tevil and his tam! what phrase is this, 'He
Call him a slanderous coward and a villain:
Stay, on thy peril: I alone will go.
though I cannot remember what I did when you made me
Of all the gentry: there is Siward's son,
Rings, jewels, any thing his rage did like.
And foul imaginary eyes of blood
It may lie gently at the foot of peace,
I am resolved, 'tis but a three years' fast:
Take heed, for heaven's sake, take heed, lest at once
My conscience bids me ask--wherefore you have
himself most feelingly personated. I can write very
You'll see your Rome embraced with fire before
The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
The emperor, in his rage, will doom her death.
I will not hence, till, with my talk and tears,
should I say to him? I was then frugal of my
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
You writ to the pope against the king: your goodness,
Yourself, your queen, your son.
Then every thing includes itself in power,
As to be hush'd and nought at all to say:
To bring me thither?
The fairy land buys not the child of me.
AJAX and HECTOR enter the lists
Contemptuous base-born callet as she is,
Of hostile paces: those opposed eyes,
I hope it be not gone to tell my lord
Then we are rid of Licio.
Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor:
No, it is not possible you should love the enemy of
The general is content to spare thee yet,
shapes, objects, ideas, apprehensions, motions,
Here lie I, Timon, who, alive, all living men did hate:
eight o'clock, to have amends.
will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be
Which I, disdaining, scorn'd, and craved death,
In our first way.
But let determined things to destiny
What says he?
All men but Proteus.
I am a gentleman of a company.
No, my good Lord, he hath forsook the court,
And throw it from their soul, though perils did
With heigh! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
To blench from this and to stand firm by honour:
'Too young' and 'the next year' and ''tis too early.'
Take, then, this your companion by the hand,
And, as occasion serves, this noble queen
Bohemia stays here longer.
Why ask you?
The ancient proverb will be well effected:
To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
Under the wings of our protector's grace,
Then let them use us well: else let them know,
For once, upon a raw and gusty day,
broken out within this hour that ballad-makers
If truth holds true contents.
Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.
I might call him
The patron of my life and liberty.
This fellow doth not stand upon points.
Remember in my prayers.
He shall not rule me.
That one meets Hector, if none else, I am he.
Whose better issue in the war, from Italy,
Our thunder from the south
Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye,
question, thou wilt be, if my cousin do not look
Let each man do his best: and here draw I
So 'tis said, sir, about his son, that should have
[To the Sailor of Mytilene]  Where is lord Helicanus?
So I do: but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.
Is forth to man his galleys. To the vales,
that claims me, one that haunts me, one that will have me.
For thee, O Imogen, even for whom my life
Exit
Like a ripe sister: the woman low
Something he left imperfect in the
Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman:
Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd
Comfort, my liege, remember who you are.
Upon our territories, and have already
Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home?
From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint,
In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as
I have been told so of many: but indeed an old
From off the gates of York fetch down the head,
That is the true beginning of our end.
Unkind remembrance! thou and eyeless night
Exeunt
His eye against the moon: in most strange postures
'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,
Sentinels at their post
With words more sweet, and yet more dangerous,
Thou didst speak but well
Be that thou hopest to be, or what thou art
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
I thank thee, Meg, these words content me much.
How now! what's the matter?
And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shouts?
That doth frequent your house.
Had she a tongue to speak, now would she say
As sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
To bear him easily hence!
But this I think, there's no man is so vain
proverbs: he will give the devil his due.
Not being Fortune, he's but Fortune's knave,
Thou art a slave, whom Fortune's tender arm
Between our after-supper and bed-time?
Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.
Since Pompey's feast, as Menas says, is troubled
But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
Yours would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go,
Therefore make present satisfaction,
'Sblood, you starveling, you elf-skin, you dried
Reigns that which would be fear'd: 'tis much he dares,
Well held out, i' faith! No, I do not know you, nor
I am come
Their coronets say so. These are stars indeed,
An onion will do well for such a shift,
Is crept into the palace of our king.
By any in this presence, I desire
I have a letter guessingly set down,
Fates, we will know your pleasures:
I thank ye, and be blest for your good comfort!
Answer'd neglectingly I know not what,
And I will help thee to prefer her too:
ANTIPHOLUS
But see, while idly I stood looking on,
Here comes the lady, let her witness it.
My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
Aloud
Eleven hours I spent to write it over,
We must needs dine together. Sir, your jewel
They have their exits and their entrances,
Appear in person here in court. Silence!
And I'll direct thee how thou shalt escape
Ha! ha! Alas, poor wretch! ah, poor capocchia!
Ay, so you serve us
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
me, by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor
Sing, and disperse 'em, if thou canst: leave working.
Some, of violated vows
But your kind hostess. Come, I'll question you
I will redeem all this on Percy's head
Put strength enough to't.
My gracious sovereign,
To whom you are but as a form in wax
established against the rich, and provide more
It holds his estimate and dignity
true, without any slips of prolixity or crossing the
one of his men was with the Lord Lucullus to borrow
Summon their general unto the wall.
Was fast belock'd in thine, this is the body
What makes treason here?
Is he won yet?
Worthily purchased take my daughter: but
COUNTESS
Re-enter two of the Citizens
Look, what I will not, that I cannot do.
SCENE II. The same.
A certainty, vouch'd from our cousin Austria,
Here were the servants of your adversary,
Come on: since the youth will not be entreated, his
And pours down mischief. Austria's head lie there,
Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf
What would you have me be, an I be not a woman?
Carry his honours even: whether 'twas pride,
His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge: I have
From whose obedience I forbid my soul,
So think thou wilt no second husband wed,
Enter KING RICHARD II, with BAGOT and GREEN at one door, and the DUKE OF AUMERLE at another
Such mortal drugs I have, but Mantua's law
Sweet father, if I shall be thought thy son,
Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
This maid will serve my turn, sir.
I'll sweeten thy sad grave: thou shalt not lack
SCENE IV. Orleans.
What I can urge against him. Although it seems,
My sons' sweet blood will make it shame and blush.
For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so.
And very courtly counsel: I'll begin.
That if it would but apprehend some joy,
They say miracles are past, and we have our
Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds:
Therefore I urge thy oath, for that I know
What's the matter?
And when good will is show'd, though't come
Wherewith my brother held you in the cloister?
Peace, villain, peace!'--even thus he rates
Is this the noble Moor whom our full senate
Of all our purposes. What say you to it?
O, then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire,
Not once, nor twice, but twenty times you have.
As matching to his youth and vanity,
Hast thou that holy feeling in thy soul,
Already, will their good thoughts call from him.
Not knowing how to find the open air,
To steal his sweet and honey'd sentences,
Never to marry but by my free leave?
the guards are but slightly basted on neither: ere
The more fool you, for laying on my duty.
Bring your army, but, I think, you'll find
They are black vesper's pageants.
And will no longer have it be delay'd.
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
I am ashamed that women are so simple
Whither away so fast?
No, no, you must play Pyramus: and, Flute, you Thisby.
lives, that I mean to make bold withal, and as you
Doublets, I think,--flew up, and had their faces
But, ah, I will not! yet I love thee well,
Conrade, I say!
Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow.
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
But is all this for your father?
Be free, and fare thou well! Please you, draw near.
As they were living, think you see them great,
sure will hang upon my tongue like a new-married
Well said, Hermione.
Here's to your ladyship: and pledge it, madam,
Is straightway calm'd and boarded with a pirate:
Whereof I know you are fraught, and put away
With bloody passage led your wars even to
That weep'st to see me triumph? Ay, my dear,
I will not lend thee a penny.
Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
Although particular, shall give a scantling
thyself a pleasure, me a sport. There are many
The common people by numbers swarm to us.
Sent from our uncle Duke of Burgundy.
Wailing our losses, whiles the foe doth rage,
Of parallels, as like as Vulcan and his wife:
Stay, I will lend thee money, borrow none.
Both are alike, and both alike we like.
Is that the rebels have consumed with fire
When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife.
A goodly house: the feast smells well, but I
Enter POLIXENES and CAMILLO
thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.
Of late with passions of some difference,
If any thing more than your sport and pleasure
The best in this kind are but shadows, and the worst
The ne'er-lust-wearied Antony.
Of pale and bloodless emulation:
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
Yes, indeed, was I.
For what is wedlock forced but a hell,
But if thy love were ever like to mine--
Of damned witchcraft, and that have prevail'd
He'll make demand of her, and spend that kiss
Shall I say to Caesar
Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
No, my lord,
And in the duke's behalf I'll give my voice,
I drink, I eat, array myself, and live.
Exeunt
sailor breaks a biscuit.
Muster'd my soldiers, gather'd flocks of friends,
And all this courtesy! The strain of man's bred out
To take this offer: but Mark Antony
Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes,
present. Why should I carry lies abroad?
For beauty lives with kindness.
He stays upon your will.
door, you would never dance again after a tabour and
How now, my lords!
But it must grieve young Pyrrhus now at home,
The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
I have seen him do. How he solicits heaven,
By Cressid's rule: rather think this not Cressid.
Measure for measure must be answered.
Fie, fie, Master Ford! are you not ashamed? What
not such grinning honour as Sir Walter hath: give me
For Suffolk's duke, may he be suffocate,
Beseech your highness, give us better credit:
itself: but I will acquaint my daughter withal,
[Aside]               You will be whipp'd.
And angels officed all: I will be gone,
Do comfort and not burn. 'Tis not in thee
As I remember, Henry the Sixth
What chance is this that suddenly hath cross'd us?
O Cassius, Brutus gave the word too early,
To those of mine!
Why, sir?
Whose bloody deeds shall make all Europe quake.
Bless her when she is riggish.
Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!
I long till Edward fall by war's mischance,
They shoot
For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds.
Now come, my Ariel! bring a corollary,
Re-enter Thisbe
To old Free-town, our common judgment-place.
Ready, so please your grace.
Nothing.
Other affairs must now be managed.
ANTIPHOLUS
O sleep, thou ape of death, lie dull upon her!
A more satiety of commendations.
And dreaming night will hide our joys no longer,
Do so, good Messala.
A stirring dwarf we do allowance give
Is not thy kindness subtle, covetous,
I can express no kinder sign of love
No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine,
could behold the sun with as firm eyes as he.
Hover through the fog and filthy air.
Commend thy grievance to my holy prayers,
John Duke of Bourbon, and Lord Bouciqualt:
stay behind
That greatness should so grossly offer it:
The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments,
not what 'twas to be beaten till lately. Follow
Cannot do more in England than the Nevils:
discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall
Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer,
In thy fats our cares be drown'd,
To every eyeball else. Go take this shape
Nay, that's certain: but yet the pity of it, Iago!
And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study,
Where is our uncle? what's the matter, Suffolk?
It grieves many:
There is some sap in this.
The ladies follow her and but one visor remains.
How! so far?
By a letter, I should say.
Wilt thou reach stars, because they shine on thee?
Perchance are to this business purblind? say.
king: it may concern much. Stay not thy
My son is lost and, in my rate, she too,
Yes. Has he affections in him,
not to do your office, as you will answer it at your peril.'
or your own eyes had the lights they were wont to
Tell me what more thou know'st.
With the consent of supreme Jove, inform
Let us from it.
Who wanting guilders to redeem their lives
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good-night to him,
A nest of traitors!
Who, when he knows thou art the empress' babe,
[Aside]  Peace! stir not.
Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths,
Knights of the garter were of noble birth,
And welcome, general: and ye're welcome all.
My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.
To you and toward your friend, whose love had spoke,
Richard, I bear thy name, I'll venge thy death,
And told me Hubert should put out mine eyes,
mightily misplaced, and the bountiful blind woman
Our late noble master!
Then call we this the field of Agincourt,
Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse:
And not relent, or not compassion him?
Be with my hopes abroad. I should be still
much honour, that thou wert not with me in this sweet
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
No, not all these, thrice-gorgeous ceremony,
Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu.
Could best express how slow his soul sail'd on,
I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
Long die thy happy days before thy death,
Under a hand accursed!
Nay, an thou pass upon me, I'll no more with thee.
Do you not love me? do you not, indeed?
During which time he ne'er saw Syracusa:
Your breath of full consent bellied his sails,
of the infinite flatteries that follow youth and opulency.
A place whereto you'll go?
Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knife's
Tell him the emperor and the empress too
of cohorts, nuptial breaches, and I know not what.
see, there is such unity in the proofs. The mantle
Inhabits here: some heavenly power guide us
Their mutinies and revolts, wherein they show'd
That will not be denied your highness presence:
Enter GLOUCESTER and his Servingmen, in mourning cloaks
Adieu. I love not the humour of bread and cheese,
But Antonio is certainly undone.
Pray so, and, for the ordering your affairs,
The thrifty hire I saved under your father,
How far is it, my lord, to Berkeley now?
Peto, so did you, Bardolph: you are lions too, you
And most desire should meet the blow of justice,
Thou dost miscall retire:
Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
What are you?
Is it true, think you?
He hath not touch'd you yet. I am young,
What, gone, my lord, and bid me not farewell!
If haply won, perhaps a hapless gain,
In this point charge him home, that he affects
And give you entrance: but without this match,
Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort
hungry that if I might have a lease of my life for a
The king and queen and all are coming down.
His body for a girl that loves him not:
What is thy name?
Pluck a red rose from off this thorn with me.
As to be call'd but viceroy of the whole?
On thee, the troubler of the poor world's peace!
Exit DIOMEDES
Now are we well resolved, and, by God's help,
reason. Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.
Brother, adieu: good fortune come to thee!
Come, let's see the event.
Lady, you are the cruell'st she alive,
That she is not so fair as, of you, well-favoured.
Is he among these?
Sleeps
[Aside]  And so says York, for he hath greatest cause.
I have told my neighbour how you have been solicited
Even so: Hector was stirring early.
Being so frustrate, tell him he mocks
Enter ANTONIO and Officers
Being but the one half of an entire sum
What says Andronicus to this device?
And throw their power i' the dust.
Well, thou wert be horribly chid tomorrow when thou
Not i' the stocks, fool.
Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting.
This fawning greyhound then did proffer me!
why then make sport at me, then let me be your jest,
Under the sweet shade of your government.
Which would be great impeachment to his age,
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, and OLIVER
Of this man to be vex'd?
This noble gentleman, Lord Titus here,
To make the world to laugh at me.
and blue list, an old hat and 'the humour of forty
O, 'tis true.
On payment of a hundred thousand crowns,
Some nobler token I have kept apart
With message unto princely Pericles,
Since all and every part of what we would
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
From me receive that natural competency
Are you not ashamed? I think you have killed the
our absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge.
You will the sooner, that I were away,
Coriolanus' exile. Now he's coming,
Sir John and Sir Hugh Mortimer, mine uncles,
If die, brave death, when princes die with us!
Brother John Bates, is not that the morning which
He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell
The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars,
firm faith.
Alas, the storm is come again! my best way is to
Their pricks at my footfall, sometime am I
And durst commend a secret to your ear
I have received letters from great Rome,
For, I believe, they are portentous things
Deceitful Warwick! it was thy device
A hand as fruitful as the land that feeds us,
And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
Why, that's the way to choke a gibing spirit,
triumphantly tread on thy country's ruin,
Why do you look on us, and shake your head,
Thou hadst been better have been born a dog
It sall be vary gud, gud feith, gud captains bath:
Indeed!
And unsuspected court her by herself.
faith, at the latter end of a sea-coal fire.
Why, so didst thou: or are they spare in diet,
And here's the heart that triumphs in their death
Till you did make him misinterpret me,
When living blood doth in these temples beat,
There spake my brother, there my father's grave
Which giveth many wounds when one will kill.
Follow your envious courses, men of malice,
Than I will wrong such honourable men.
Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to the
To find out this abuse, whence 'tis derived.
yields pound and odd shilling, fifteen hundred
I'll be with thee betimes.
Then doth it well appear that Salique law
To bear her burthen, whether I will or no,
Was still inscribed, in which you brought the king
But, O, what damned minutes tells he o'er
That the old carlot once was master of.
That will prove awful both in deed and word.
Marry, so I mean, sweet Katharina, in thy bed:
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
Yes, I do think that you might pardon him,
Why, this, Volumnius:
Yes, and a gentlewoman's son.
As roused with rage with rage doth sympathize,
'Ad Jovem,' that's for you: here, 'Ad Apollinem:'
That your good beauties be the happy cause
In nightly revels and new jollity.
Did not I say he would work it out? the cur is
It greets me as an enterprise of kindness
No more but, plain and bluntly, 'To the king!'
Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait:
Here's more news.
In this fair rescue thou hast brought to me.
The hope of Rome, for so he bade me say,
Enter two other Soldiers
That Caesar looks so sad.
this year connive at us, and we may do any thing
like Falstaff, but a Corinthian, a lad of mettle, a
my daughter tell you how.
To marry her, I'll add three thousand crowns
Rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest, and
With instruments upon them, fit to open
But tell me, wench, how will the world repute me
O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
service is seldom attributed to the true and exact
and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind that
Came not my friend nor I.
Welcome, my good Alexas. Did I, Charmian,
on thee, I am a very villain. Come, and be hanged!
And he whose pious breath seeks to convert you,
me, 'As jealous as Ford, Chat searched a hollow
and the old ornament of his cheek hath already
yet I determine to fight lustily for him.
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
Seeing AUTOLYCUS
SCENE III. The temple of Diana at Ephesus, THAISA standing
What, my lord! dispraise?
In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell,
Open their congeal'd mouths and bleed afresh!
parrot, and yet the son of a woman! His industry is
Exit
My lord?
On pure heart's love to greet the tender princes.
Bids the winds blow the earth into the sea,
SCENE I. A wood near Athens.
And call'd unto a cardinal's degree?
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
Nor never Hydra-headed wilfulness
Let's not meet her.
In readiness for Hymenaeus stand,
Which princes, would they, may not disannul,
O villain! thy lips are scarce wiped since thou
I know you would be prouder of the work
The taste whereof, God of his mercy give
Exeunt DIOMEDES and CALCHAS
He well may be a stranger, for he comes
Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. Plate sin with gold,
O heavy burthen!
Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant
That misbegotten devil, Faulconbridge,
How now, Lavinia! Marcus, what means this?
Madam, your penance done, throw off this sheet,
How now sir! is your merry humour alter'd?
Enter PAROLLES
'Tis now struck twelve, get thee to bed, Francisco.
sooner persuade Harry of England than a general
Straight after did I meet him with a chain.
How now, how now!
Upon thy promising fortune.
The gates of Milan, and, i' the dead of darkness,
And sullen presage of your own decay.
And none of you will bid the winter come
More company! The fiend is strong within him.
As I have ever found thee honest-true,
Despised the Athenian maid,
For the demand of our neglected tribute
Your daughter's chastity--there it begins.
Did in great Ilion thus translate him to me.
Faster than thought or time.
For my great suit so easily obtain'd.
Which none but heaven and you and I shall hear.
I shall, my lord.
Mend when thou canst, be better at thy leisure:
Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice,
miry a place, how she was bemoiled, how he left her
Born blind, an't please your grace.
O, father, you'll know more of that hereafter.
'Will you come home?' quoth I, 'My gold!' quoth he.
Richard yet lives, hell's black intelligencer,
one-trunk-inheriting slave, one that wouldst be a
We mourn in black: why mourn we not in blood?
Think you so, sir?
We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
It is his hand, my lord, but I hope his heart is
I'll well remember you.
The greater scorns the lesser: not nature,
Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners,
To BANQUO
Kills TAMORA
Yet will I woo for him, but yet so coldly
That he is too familiar with his wife.
How under my oppression I did reek,
Cold lips blow to their deities, take thee from me.
Where heart doth hop:
I greet thy love,
Which seem to move and wanton with her breath,
Judas I am,--
Than die for this.
Stands Scotland where it did?
A ring in chase of you: so did I abuse
Why, sir, I know her not.
With unrestrained loose companions,
And at that time bequeathe you my diseases.
How shall that faith return again to earth,
you like me, Kate?
ANTIPHOLUS
EPILOGUE
I care not.
His crest that prouder than blue Iris bends.
Commend them and condemn them to her service
That pages blush'd at him and men of heart
We please them not by land.
By the hand of a soldier, I will undertake it.
With any strong or vehement importunity,
I'll mend it, and then play.
Else might I think that Clarence, Edward's brother,
His daughter meanly have I match'd in marriage,
That Timon's fortunes 'mong his friends can sink.
It cannot be but he was murder'd here,
Dost thou mock me?
For if he'll do as he is made to do,
Embrace him, love him, give him welcome hither.
By my old beard,
I'll gladly learn.
From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!
It were no match, your nail against his horn.
Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them.
I warrant it is to knight you, captain.
Because they died in honour's lofty bed.
Whose misadventured piteous overthrows
Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractised,
Enter a Messenger
Kingdom'd Achilles in commotion rages
To have me fold up Parca's fatal web?
At no time broke my faith, would not betray
Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant?
Being cross'd in conference by some senators.
capable creature.
That's me, I warrant you.
Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven
What say you, Scarlet and John?
You do not love Maria, Longaville
Sir, call me what thou darest.
To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.
Whether the three Worthies shall come in or no.
Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
[Aside]  So wise so young, they say, do never
Lawful as eating.
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA severally
In your supposing once more put your sight
Implore her, in my voice, that she make friends
What are you there? come in, and give some help.
discourse, my lord.
they do not give us the lie.
be a reasonable man, grew so in love with the
Sirs, stop his mouth, and let him speak no more.
Perseus: he is pure air and fire, and the dull
By and by is easily said.
To these great fellows: sound and be hang'd, sound out!
So bad an instrument: his name's Parolles.
He'll be as full of quarrel and offence
Fie, fie, fie, fie!
Hautboys. Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, and takes his state
The wofull'st man that ever lived in Rome:
Make those that do offend you suffer too.
Of one not easily jealous, but being wrought
I was my chamber's prisoner.
Being so near the truth as I will make them,
The consul Coriolanus.
Of its own fail, restraining aid to Timon,
Of such a merry, nimble, stirring spirit,
Was nothing but mutation, ay, and that
Excellent.
But praying, to enrich his watchful soul:
All made of passion and all made of wishes,
Thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea,
Madam, he will, I know't.
Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again:
For thousand Yorks he shall not hide his head,
you are o' the commission,
In my voluptuousness: your wives, your daughters,
And thou, and I, sit round about some fountain,
There lie thy bones, sweet Mutius, with thy friends,
Now, Master Slender: love him, daughter Anne.
And from this testimony of your own sex,--
Farewell at once, for once, for all, and ever.
back, will I ravish her: first kill him, and in her
These tidings would call forth their flowing tides.
Give first admittance to the ambassadors,
Whose glory fills the world with loud report.
The city is well stored.
With any long'd-for change or better state.
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
my friends and the better for my foes.
Of his wings destitute, the army broken,
Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
to dinner: besides your cheer, you shall have
Now, by this light, were I to get again,
With some few bands of chosen soldiers,
Then when ourselves we see in ladies' eyes,
Commend me to Lord William: tell him, Catesby,
We do, sir, tell us what hath brought you to't.
Thus honest fools lay out their wealth on court'sies.
matter. I am given, sir, secretly to understand
Greet you our victory? you look like Romans,
Exit ROMEO
From monster's view, and all things shall be peace.
Fare you well, sir.
I do beseech you send for some of them.
Therefore I pray you: I'll see you by and by.
No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest, no offence
Do get their children, but in this case of wooing,
If the first that did the edict infringe
and spin it off.
Rate me at what thou wilt, thou shalt be paid.
So did I too, and he swore he would marry her to-night.
What means his grace, that he hath changed his style?
Did you find me in yourself, sir? or were you
This pert Biron was out of countenance quite.
Tell Bolingbroke--for yond methinks he stands--
It is ashamed to bear me! Friends, come hither:
Pompey the Great and all his dignities
Or that or any place that harbours men.
Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit
Ah, ah!
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
'Tis no matter! I shall speak as much as thou
Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.
Form'd by the eye and therefore, like the eye,
To make a virtue of necessity
A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair,
O, belike it is the Bishop of Carlisle.
Yet, wooing thee, I found thee of more value
That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister,
Will drive away distemper. To some shade,
the Bunch of Grapes, where indeed you have a delight
And we will follow.
In the base court? Come down? Down, court!
I am giddy, expectation whirls me round.
Wherein my letters, praying on his side,
have beaten thee, but in that thou art like to be my
Tetchy and wayward was thy infancy,
To drown me in thy sister's flood of tears:
Whereby I see that Time's the king of men,
danced before the king, and not the worst of the
How does he, sirrah?
A table full of welcome make scarce one dainty dish.
Peace, Tranio!
Here, say we drink this standing-bowl of wine to him.
To noble fortunes: know thou this, that men
To quench mine honour: they would shame to make me
By law of nature and of nations, 'long
myself, these gentlemen can witness! but I would
These bloody accidents must excuse my manners,
To call together all his state of war,
husband'? None, I think, and it be the right husband
Both in your form and nobleness of mind,
honesty, my mask, to defend my beauty, and you, to
That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio
Enter certain Outlaws
With horns, as was Actaeon's, and the hounds
By sudden flight: come, dally not, be gone.
keep my hand dry. But what's your jest?
Uncouple here and let us make a bay
O, out of that 'no hope'
My tongue, though not my heart, shall have his will.
He hangs the lip at something: you know all, Lord Pandarus.
paper shortly: what need these feasts, pomps and
Than such a Roman.
Navarre shall be the wonder of the world,
The best-regarded virgins of our clime
Exit CARDINAL WOLSEY
Express'd and not express'd. But when this ring
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
That I myself have done unto myself?
wholly depends on your abode.
Since his addiction was to courses vain,
She is a theme of honour and renown,
We'll send Mark Antony to the senate-house:
That I might touch that cheek!
Into our hands, and to confine yourself
The heavens do lour upon you for some ill,
believing thee a vessel of too great a burthen. I
Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
Till Bolingbroke have pardon'd thee. Away, be gone!
SCENE III. A park near the palace.
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
Obey, and go with me, for thou must die.
Thou Fortune's champion that dost never fight
Hang, cur! hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker!
Of my good purposes, and put your children
A rare talent!
I could make as true a boast as that, if I had a sow
lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I
Sixscore fat oxen standing in my stalls,
Yet, dread Priam,
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity--
O thou dull Moor! that handkerchief thou speak'st of
That thus without advice begin to love her!
With letters of your love to her at large.
Whose want gives growth to the imperfections
They give their greeting to the citadel,
one Deformed: they say be wears a key in his ear and
Thou art my brother, so we'll hold thee ever.
Earl Surrey was sent thither, and in haste too,
Why, then, your ladyship must cut your hair.
Since I have lost thee!
Will they not, think you, hang themselves tonight?
jump the after inquiry on your own peril: and how
'Was' is not 'is:' besides, the oath of a lover is
That she did make defect perfection,
Well, go to, we'll have no bastards live,
having colour enough, and the other higher, is too
Will hiss me to my grave: contempt and clamour
Whose passage, vex'd with thy impediment,
horse-stealer, but for his verity in love, I do
Let's part the word.
SCENE II. The Mart.
Be patient, we must bring you to our captain.
A little gale will soon disperse that cloud
Thersites! what's the matter, man?
will either be food for it or bring it for food to
Well, let his father be what a' will, we talk of
When shall we three meet again
O, if the streets were paved with thine eyes,
And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived.
more tricks with Falstaff: his dissolute disease will
And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes:
I do remit these young men's heinous faults: Stand up.
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Thou hast thy mistress still, to boot, my son,
the physician: the most sovereign prescription in
To undeservers.
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
Out, strumpet! weep'st thou for him to my face?
Before this earthy prison of their bones,
Thanks, fairest lady.
Thus then, thou most renown'd: Caesar entreats,
Fleance is 'scaped.
For tears do stop the flood-gates of her eyes.
Let two more summers wither in their pride,
Undone by goodness! Strange, unusual blood,
Why, then I see
Faith, mistress, then I have no cause to stay.
I know by that he's dead, and, by my soul,
Exit
physician to comment on your malady.
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome,
Parolles, was it not?
Where hast thou led me? I perhaps speak this
changes I perceived in the king and Camillo were
Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,
Ay, truly, for the power of beauty will sooner
Though I should swear I saw't: 'tis very much:
That the main harvest reaps: loose now and then
I especially think, under Mars.
At such a time, with all the rest retold,
That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad!
Bears no impression of the thing it was.
Which by my knowledge found, the sinful father
His marches are expedient to this town,
Allons! we will employ thee.
Brother, give me thy hand, and, gentle Warwick,
with me: I'll tell you all, Master Brook. Since I
But God sort all! You are welcome home, my lord.
Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly,
Here's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash,
How many things by season season'd are
This is the air, that is the glorious sun,
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
My Nell, I take my leave: and, master sheriff,
Is't a verdict?
The voice of dead Thaisa!
This lady makes him to me.
A flourish, trumpets! strike alarum, drums!
the feats of a lion: he hath indeed better
With some sweet concert, to their instruments
Exeunt
Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
What, not to pray?
quarrel with fear and trembling.
Ay, grief, I fear me, both at first and last.
would, are as secret as maidenhead, to your ears,
Here, father, take the shadow of this tree
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
SCENE III. A church.
Welcome, brave Warwick! What brings thee to France?
That thou mightst join her hand with his
pagan, most sweet Jew! if a Christian did not play
And shall these labours and these honours die?
Prithee, return: with thy approach, I know,
That's a deed thou'lt die for.
The ship is here put in,
Be advised.
Might happily have proved far worse than his.
EPILOGUE
If you'll bestow a small--of what you have little--
Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
He broke from those that had the guard of him,
What I told you then,
I have a roisting challenge sent amongst
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
Her pretty action did outsell her gift,
And smelt so? pah!
Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
Why, thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit.
Enter Fiends
[Coming forward]  Let me see't, let me see't, O, let
Out, devil! I remember them too well:
provocation.
I that do bring the news made not the match.
Hark! more knocking.
Pass the remainder of our hateful days?
The good and bad together: he's friends with Caesar:
A city on whom plenty held full hand,
Which being violently borne upon,
--odours savours sweet:
By my consent, we'll even let them alone.
Tell me, you heavens, in which part of his body
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
Art thou a feodary for this act, and look'st
Yet who than he more mean?--to knit their souls,
And from his bosom purge this black despair!
us, and is very likely to load our purposes with
Dear general, I never gave you cause.
Which, but their children's end, nought could remove,
Or any air of music touch their ears,
Then every soldier kill his prisoners:
And give it way: I know thou canst not choose.
Besides the gods, for this great miracle.
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
But hear you, my lord.
I wake before the time that Romeo
For mine own part,
get an eye-wink of her: I had myself twenty angels
Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
An 'twere to give again,--but 'tis no matter.
likeness, he must appear naked and blind. Can you
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
Maugre thy strength, youth, place, and eminence,
She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
Whom love hath turn'd almost the wrong side out,
Enter FALSTAFF and PISTOL
How will he triumph, leap and laugh at it!
Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy
Put forth disorder'd twigs, her fallow leas
The figo for thee, then!
Both which, master constable,--
every thing that an honest man should not have, what
No more words, we beseech you.
And we will not, heaven's offer we refuse,
And pleasure drown the brim.
Cousin of Buckingham, and you sage, grave men,
Thy mantle good,
They would not take her life. Is not this true?
Be it with resolution then to fight.
So hung upon with love, so fortunate,
To the sweet Julia:' that I'll tear away.
In conclusion, I stand affected to her.
Go thither, and, with unattainted eye,
O Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in
is?
Or as the snake roll'd in a flowering bank,
not, man, here's no harm intended to thee.
Had I as many sons as I have hairs,
Come, sir, I know what I know.
Enter HECTOR
I thank you, sir,
What is thy name?
Exit
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring,
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding,
My sword i' the life-blood of thee else. My lords,
The rest will ne'er come in, if he be out
'Tis unreasonable! Will you take up your wife's
No.
I tell thee she is: and therefore make her grave
If thou didst put this sour-cold habit on
By my troth and maidenhead,
And the gods strengthen thee!
will run as far as God has any ground. O rare
Good morrow, neighbour Baptista.
It is a fault that springeth from your eye.
And fetch the chain, by this I know 'tis made:
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF ARRAGON, PORTIA, and their trains
Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive and cog,
Enter OSWALD
Must cover thy sweet eyes.
prologue to an egg and butter.
Pursue thy life, and live aye with thy name!
What, with worms and flies?
Exeunt
Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?
And will he not come again?
With 'God preserve the good Duke Humphrey!'
Mistress Anne, my cousin loves you.
a verb, and such abominable words as no Christian
If you can, your reason?
Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies,
Now, infidel, I have you on the hip.
I once more take my leave.
Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have
I think this Talbot be a fiend of hell.
He may a little grieve at.
Which I could fancy more than any other.
Have you done yet?
And yet we mourn: her monument
No, no, you shall have it for bearing the letter.
And yet the fire of life kindle again
By the misprising of a maid too virtuous
[Within]  My liege, beware, look to thyself,
Has caught me in his eye: I will present
Enter MACBETH
Exeunt all but BASTARD
Your safety manifested.
Thou hast finish'd joy and moan:
He hates our sacred nation, and he rails,
O, if it should, how would thy guts fall about thy
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Which, being writ to me, shall be deliver'd
Exit
Were stol'n, and to this hour no guess in knowledge
We could control them. If you will come to me,--
Resolved to carry her: let her in fine consent,
The heavens have bless'd you with a goodly son,
I could well forbear't.
Of sprites and goblins.
your enemy, she is not worth our debate: if she
Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent,
Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? he's as good at
greatness back?
one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed, to be,
News have I, that my Nell is dead i' the spital
Wanting his manage, and they will almost
want no instruction, if their daughters be capable,
You holp us, sir,
clean. nor believe he can have every thing in him
Which grieves me when I see my shame in him.
My actions are as noble as my thoughts,
A bitter fool!
O, then be bold to say Bassanio's dead!
As, not to see a woman in that term,
Throws down his gauntlet
Left on your right hand brings you to the place.
Speak, Romans, speak, and if you say we shall,
Cock crows
Enter the DUCHESS in a white sheet, and a taper  burning in her hand, with STANLEY, the Sheriff, and Officers
Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear
The common praise it bears.
The source of this our watch and the chief head
What's the matter?
For such proceeding I am charged withal,
Falsely to take away a life true made
must come off, I'll sauce them. Come.
To use it like a giant.
Heaven forgive me!
You jack'nape, give-a this letter to Sir Hugh, by
pluck the lined crutch from thy old limping sire,
king, my master, hath sent for me, to whose feeling
Where these two Christian armies might combine
An we do not, it is pity of our lives.
If this be so, the gods do mean to strike me
Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt
That, being brought into the open air,
Pray you, give me my gown, or else keep it in your arms.
Who will go to hazard with me for twenty prisoners?
thing that I have commanded thee: the third is,
How now! Who's there?
With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,
O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
In pity of our aged and our youth,
O that I thought it could be in a woman--
Now to deliver her possession up
Than what he found himself was apt and true.
The lady speaks in Welsh
Why, very well then, you must not think then that I am drunk.
I come with gracious offers from the king,
Whip to our tents, as roes run o'er land.
Hereafter time, for time past wrong'd by thee.
But it is your carbonadoed face.
Am not I Hermia? are not you Lysander?
That if our queen and this young prince agree,
As by the strength of their illusion
Prescribe to other as each other's leech.
Re-enter Widow, with HELENA
It's one o'clock, boy, is't not?
By the queen's dram she swallow'd.
Gentlemen, there's some of worth would come aboard,
Will yield to see his daughter.
the fury of his heart, when the foul fiend rages,
Exit
I told him that your father was at Venice,
Is't possible the world should so much differ,
It rains downright.
And eke out our performance with your mind.
There, take the crown, and, with the crown, my curse,
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,
an I were not a very coward, I'ld compel it of you:
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.
SCENE III. The same. Street before Pandarus' house.
And with some sweet oblivious antidote
Go, sickness as thou art!
SCENE II. LEONATO'S garden.
the inside of your purse to the outside of his hand,
That swear'st grace o'erboard, not an oath on shore?
Can ye endure to hear this arrogance?
If I were covetous, ambitious or perverse,
Are journeying to salute the emperor
Your reproof is something too round: I should be
I would not part a bachelor from the priest.
There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
Come, fellow-soldier, make thou proclamation.
ever since kept Hector fasting and waking.
When thou wakest, if she be by,
'Tis in grain, sir, 'twill endure wind and weather.
Perchance he's hurt i' the battle.
To bring, uncle?
Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator,
There is not one word apt, one player fitted:
Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail
Whither travel you?
Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
Not in this heat, sir, now.
For I have gain'd by 't.
Stand we in good array, for they no doubt
Than you to punish.
Such as the day is when the sun is hid.
Exit
How in my words soever she be shent,
Where I have took them up.
My riots past, my wild societies,
O Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married,
great an opposition.' Say you so, say you so? I say
His pleasure, may be he will relent. Alas,
Shall be engraved the sack of Orleans,
For as I am, I live upon the rack.
We dare not move the question of our place,
Her name is Katharina Minola,
Or brew it to a weak and colder palate,
never come in mine own great chamber again else, of
What's thy passion!
Can be but brief, for I have made him know
Work without it. Truth is, that Fulvia,
As much to you, good sister! Whither away?
therefore he scorns to say his prayers, lest a'
A sennet. Enter, with actors before them, COMINIUS  the consul, MENENIUS, CORIOLANUS, Senators,  SICINIUS and BRUTUS. The Senators take their  places, the Tribunes take their Places by themselves. CORIOLANUS stands
To slay thy brother Abel, if thou wilt.
And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart
Armado is a most illustrious wight,
Upon this overweening traitor's foot,
Might in thy palace perish Margaret.
You know now your hostages, your uncle's word and my
My substance should be statue in thy stead.
danger of kibes?
You woo'd me the false way.
Ay, so I did indeed.
Now, sir, come on: what was done to Elbow's wife, once more?
Herself's a bawd: let not the virgin's cheek
Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever,
Most throughly to be winnow'd, where my chaff
What counsel give you in this weighty cause?
To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
That thou no more shalt see this knack, as never
But, like dumb statues or breathing stones,
It cannot be, for when I parted with him,
Which is the merchant here, and which the Jew?
'Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake, and see thyself.
By the heels, and suddenly, and on your heads
And made your other love, Demetrius,
peremptorily I speak it, there is virtue in that
Is it as he will? well then, France shall rue.
To equal any single crown o' the earth
there's no heed to be taken of them, if Caesar had
By my troth, I speak my thought.
As fast lock'd up in sleep as guiltless labour
Why, if thou never wast at court, thou never sawest
But this eternal blazon must not be
Of these Plantagenets, Henry and Edward,
SCENE VI. The same. A banqueting-room in Timon's house.
My will! 'od's heartlings, that's a pretty jest
Burns with revenging fire, whose hopeful colours
It was the copy of our conference:
Myself.
That him and his they in his palace burn,
When you and I met at Saint Alban's last,
What wouldst thou have to Athens?
I shall no more to sea, to sea,
And suits well for a servant with my fortunes:
shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry,
of ambition, an envious emulator of every man's
It will be laid to us, whose providence
My lord Bassanio and my gentle lady,
Than had I seen the vaulty top of heaven
Ah, women, women! come, we have no friend
This shoulder was ordain'd so thick to heave,
That on the touching of her lips I may
Despise me, when I break this oath of mine.
'Tis time, descend, be stone no more, approach,
I go: and towards three or four o'clock
In the good man's distress! Seek, seek for him,
do the office of a warming-pan. Faith, he's very ill.
Nan Page my daughter and my little son
O God!
Whose boughs did bend with fruit: but in one night,
And given my treasures and my rights of thee
The dews of heaven fall thick in blessings on her!
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
To bring my whole cause 'fore his holiness,
And he grows angry. Now, whether he kill Cassio,
he might know none of his secrets: now do I see he
Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters,
Levy great sums of money through the realm
my tongue is too foolhardy, but my heart hath the
Then be it as you will, for 'tis my right,
Think of this life, but, for my single self,
Which way is he, in the name of sanctity? If all
But do not like to stage me to their eyes:
brought it?
complain of? Come me to what was done to her.
And witch sweet ladies with my words and looks.
We three here art that ne'er shall meet again.
Irreparable is the loss, and patience
Do not you know my lady's foot by the squier,
Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if
Some devil whisper curses in mine ear,
Do not, dear father.
Till death be uttered,
Hath made us forward. But, my gentle queen,
Thy case, dear friend,
Sir John Norbery, Sir Robert Waterton and Francis Quoint,
Upon the water as he'll stand and read
Beat loud the tabourines, let the trumpets blow,
Son, let your mother end.
Our inland from the pilfering borderers.
certain that when he makes water his urine is
my master and mistress are almost frozen to death.
His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.
Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child
Touching her flight.
Mine was not bridled.
How can that be?
Cerberus is at Proserpine's beauty, ay, that thou
Enter PISTOL
great as the first in goodness, but greater a great
That every day under his household roof
Publius, come hither, Caius, and Valentine!
of our company?
Your beauty: which did haunt me in my sleep
Exeunt all but Antipholus of Syracuse, Antipholus of Ephesus, Dromio of Syracuse and Dromio of Ephesus
Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell:
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?
And who durst mine when Warwick bent his brow?
What, shall our feast be kept with slaughter'd men?
Were met together to rehearse a play
True, my lord.
There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry:
I thought I should have seen some Hercules,
And, like a hungry lion, did commence
names as they pass by, but mark Troilus above the rest.
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
Here, quite confounded with this mutiny.
Therefore let our proportions for these wars
my speech, for besides that it is excellently well
The sun with one eye vieweth all the world.
Fie, brother! how the world is changed with you!
And 'gentle Harry Percy,' and 'kind cousin,'
From Ampthill where the princess lay, to which
They'll pardon it.--Say you, sir?
And, like a gallant in the brow of youth,
Oft have I digg'd up dead men from their graves,
What, wilt thou flout me thus unto my face,
And after scandal them, or if you know
Speak in the order of his funeral.
Exeunt THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train
and lay it to your heart: it is the only thing for a qualm.
And then I swore thee, saving of thy life,
Get me some poison, Iago, this night: I'll not
My falcon now is sharp and passing empty,
[Aside]  I knew her well, she was a midwife.
The time now serves not to expostulate:
To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
Intents but merely thoughts.
Truly, mine host, I must turn away some of my
Plays in the right hand, thus: but tell him,
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
'Madam,' and nothing else: so lords
Regan, I think you are, I know what reason
And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet:
To do my work with haste.
Yet hath a woman's kindness over-ruled:
[Aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
That indirectly and directly too
Agamemnon,
Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace.
Nay, but hear me.
those which have walked in their sleep who have died
Give scandal to the blood o' the prince my son,
Before thou make a trial of her love?
If the man be a bachelor, sir, I can, but if he be a
wife was brought to bed of twenty money-bags at a
The greatest monarch now alive may glory
knock, never at quiet! What are you? But
Tush! never tell me, I take it much unkindly
Exit FALSTAFF
The cause were known to them it most concerns,
O God, seest Thou this, and bearest so long?
Here's one comes in his shirt, with light and weapons.
He will again be well: if much you note him,
Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends
Should be infused with so foul a spirit!
No, no, when Fortune means to men most good,
A proof of strength she could not publish more,
Upon the stroke of four.
When you have done, repair to Crosby Place.
So heavy as thou shalt not shake them off,
Please your highness,
Who dies, that bears not one spurn to their graves
Suppose the singing birds musicians,
This jarring discord of nobility,
For present comfort and for future good,
Kent from me, she hath lost her best man, and exhort
Thou god of this great vast, rebuke these surges,
Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
Withdraws
For that which now torments me to rehearse:
The duke hath put on a religious life
Fair ladies mask'd are roses in their bud,
And to conclude, the shepherd's homely curds,
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
And if we be, how dare thy joints forget
And the quaint mazes in the wanton green
Bardolph's nose, and a' said it was a black soul
Confederate with the queen and her two sons:
Exeunt
king, thou art poor enough. What wouldst thou?
He hath more worthy interest to the state
Villain, thou know'st the law of arms is such
I will not ask again. Close villain,
These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues.
trust my judgment in any thing.
Though we upon this mountain's basis by
Ay, but you must confine yourself within the modest
They converse apart
And must I go to him?
Exit
Not I, my lord, sith true nobility
To take 't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
Without more help, could fight this royal battle!
At your choice, sir.
and hiding mine honour in my necessity, am fain to
Is hack'd down, and his summer leaves all faded,
Do you hear how he misplaces?
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
Hast thou given all to thy two daughters?
Under the shade of melancholy boughs,
one another and shook their heads, but, for mine own
How now! a conduit, girl? what, still in tears?
For sure, he fills it up with great ability,
If well-respected honour bid me on,
I know not how to pray your patience,
Bastards and all.
This ignorant present, and I feel now
The stamp of nobleness in any person
Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing
Crowned in Paris in despite of foes?
I'll fetch my sister, to get her good will.
Farewell, good Messala:
Under some biting error.
shall be to your good, for my father's house and all
He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much
We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
Not that I fear to stay, but love to go
With thy confederates in this weighty cause.
A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,
Alack, no remedy!--to the greedy touch
Against my kindred, brothers, and myself,
How much more is his life in value with him?
Be candidatus then, and put it on,
For on my heart they tread now whilst I live,
Do they still fly to the Roman?
You have little cause to say so.
In that you brook it in, it makes him worse:
Enter CROMWELL, and stands amazed
Some of us love you well, and even those some
My worthy lord, if ever Tamora
Your brows are blacker, yet black brows, they say,
For, being green, there is great hope of help.
Had he none else to make a stale but me?
If not most mortal to him. But, let it come.
Let pry through the portage of the head
damnable. If you do love Rosalind so near the heart
To keep the horsemen off from breaking in.
says the fiend, 'and run.' Well, my conscience,
Unto his honour, has my lord's meat in him:
What wouldst thou, boy?
To stride a limit.
write, pen, for I am for whole volumes in folio.
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
My chaplain to no creature living, but
that are fools, let them use their talents.
Cousin, look not sad:
I'll to dinner.
Cry the amen, and yet my conscience says
thou ever see me do such a trick?
For fear of swallowing, but with nimble wing
Enter Servant
And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the lady
I did, my lord: yet let me be their bail,
In seeking tales and informations
I never look'd for better at his hands,
of all compass.
Large sums of gold and dowries with their wives:
To cross the seas and to be crown'd in France:
I do not fear it, I have seen you both:
I never saw an action of such shame,
Therefore the earth, fearing to be o'erflow'd,
And wake him to the answer, think you?
this sister of mine do with rice? But my father
Go great with tigers, dragons, wolves, and bears,
I was a pack-horse in his great affairs,
O master, if you did but hear the pedlar at the
Trojan!--now the sleeve, now the sleeve!
'Tis the Lord Hastings, the king's chiefest friend.
Alas, alas!
A begging prince what beggar pities not?
I am amazed, and know not what to say.
Which I presume shall render you no blame
l'envoy, no l'envoy, no salve, sir, but a plantain!
There is a written scroll! I'll read the writing.
In honour'd love.
May hourly fall upon ye!
Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
As if he had but proved an argument.
Something that's brief, and bid 'Good morrow, general.'
He'll drop his heart into the sink of fear
No grief did ever come so near thy heart
frights English out of his wits.
To-morrow morning let us meet him then.
He may enguard his dotage with their powers,
Exeunt all but QUEEN MARGARET, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, and YORK, SOMERSET remains apart
How now, brother! Where is my cousin, your son?
An 'twere my case, I should go hang myself.
How! bribe me?
Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
That Angelo's a murderer, is 't not strange?
Take them away.
O'er him whom heaven created for thy ruler.
but I'll bridle it: he shall die, an it be but for
Foul weather?
He loved her, sir, and loved her not.
may run mad, but, if with too much brain and too
Nay, I'll be patient.
But still remember what the Lord hath done.
'Tis pity bounty had not eyes behind,
Old sir, I know
could not discover, these shallow fools have brought
For I have heard it said
And thou, Posthumus, thou that didst set up
But, as it were, in sort or limitation,
The trumpets sound. Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE  HENRY, LORD JOHN LANCASTER, EARL OF WESTMORELAND, with WORCESTER and VERNON prisoners
And in that quarrel use it to the death.
All hot and bleeding will we offer them:
The Ghosts vanish
I have been studying how I may compare
And, with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget,
Ay, dat is very good, excellent.
And what we do establish he confirms:
Unto the tranect, to the common ferry
To keep us in false gaze. When we consider
Not me begotten of a shepherd swain,
Your sued-for tongues?
From such a filthy vice: say to thyself,
There I deny my land service. But give me your
So they do nothing, 'tis a venial slip:
And art almost an alien to the hearts
That fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day.
Though from an humble stock, undoubtedly
So please you, he is here at the door and importunes
The fairest in all Syria,
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And by relating tales of others' griefs,
Slain by his servant, going to put out
Then art thou damned for keeping thy word with the devil.
I here importune death awhile, until
And are the cities, that I got with wounds,
[Reads]  'with a child of our grandmother Eve, a
There stays a husband to make you a wife:
By east and west let France and England mount
How many years a mortal man may live.
Thanks, gentle Romans: may I govern so,
Unless they seek for hatred at my hands,
Find such another master.
Monsieur le Fer.
question asked him by any of the senators, but they
The gracious queen, part of his theme, but nothing
While they do tend the profit of the land.
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
What say you, uncle?
His tongue is now a stringless instrument,
Well, officer, arrest him at my suit.
That has a name: but there's no bottom, none,
Argued betwixt the Duke of York and him,
Your mind is the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the
Some few odd lads that you remember not.
Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail
SCENE VI. A field of battle.
none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt-worms,
form of marriage, and you shall recount their
To be your regent in the realm of France.
That excellent complexion, which did steal
and credit and as I hope to live.
Than three great argosies, besides two galliases,
It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain
Not see him since? Sir, sir, that cannot be:
I pray now, call her.
Till then fair hope must hinder life's decay.
There is between my will and all offences
suffered under that shape, I beseech you take it for
did she, an hour together, transshape thy particular
I am but as a guiltless messenger.
Must stead us all and me amongst the rest,
Here's to my love!
linguist and the armipotent soldier.
From whence thou camest, how tended on: but rest
You men of Kent,--
And we their hands.
More counsel with more money, bounteous Timon.
Where will you find men worthy enough to present them?
ACT V
Be not so long to speak, I long to die,
Where most you owe obedience?
To keep her constancy in plight and youth,
He's as tall a man as any's in Illyria.
Saint Denis bless this happy stratagem!
Whither goest thou?
Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.
No, my good lord, therefore be patient.
To come again to Carthage.
If the scarce-bearded Caesar have not sent
Much in our vows, but little in our love.
Encore qu'il est contre son jurement de pardonner
Thou diest for it.
constrains a man to bow in the hams.
He hugg'd me in his arms, and swore, with sobs,
Exeunt
This sudden execution of my will.
[Aside]
A noble troop of strangers,
Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,
Come, come, the cause: if arguing make us sweat,
Your daughter spent in Genoa, as I heard, in one
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
And speak't again, my lord, no more with me.
cheer.' So a' cried out 'God, God, God!' three or
Must shuffle for itself.
Let me remember thee what thou hast promised,
Nothing at all, unless that this were she.
Therefore he hates me.
Faith, and so it did.
Enter EUPHRONIUS, ambassador from MARK ANTONY
Re-enter GLENDOWER with the ladies
To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made
teacher. An the indentures be drawn, I'll away
Of the king's ship
These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend
And greedily devour the treacherous bait:
To be a party in this injury.
Find out thy brother, wheresoe'er he is,
These eyes, these brows, were moulded out of his:
Six of his labours you'ld have done, and saved
Who have--as who have not, that their great stars
Thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.
I should kick, being kick'd, and, being at that pass,
The pregnant instrument of wrath
No worse than I, upon some agreement
I think nothing, my lord.
Have blown this coal betwixt my lord and me,
And thus my battle shall be ordered:
Which ever has and ever shall be growing,
For our access, whose hap shall be to have her
Here, Winchester, I offer thee my hand.
Enter Scout
O, ay, what else?
We did not quote them so.
Call in the sheriff.
When he perceives the envious clouds are bent
king's daughter is found: such a deal of wonder is
Our holy lives must win a new world's crown,
Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton.
And such as to my claim are liable,
Signior Lucio, did not you say you knew that
On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.
A beggar, brother?
How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news?
Daring the event to the teeth, are all in uproar,
And, in the end being rescued, I have seen
Can wash the balm off from an anointed king,
To break it with a fearful dream of him
I love thee better now than e'er I did.
Bore many gentlemen, myself being one,
I shall not fail to approve the fair conceit
Alack,
though I be but the prince of Wales, yet I am king
And lose my hopes.
His nighted life: moreover, to descry
None in the world: you did mistake him, sure.
And shape to win grace though he had no wit.
O, you go far.
Incensed the lords o' the council, that he is,
Peep through thy marble mansion, help,
with you. You must not know where he sups.
Do not think, gentlemen. I am drunk: this is my
Nor sound his quillets shrilly: hoar the flamen,
Seems he a dove? his feathers are but borrowed,
Do you know what you say?
[Aside]  If I find him comforting the king, it will
Which his hell-govern'd arm hath butchered!
From forth thy plenteous bosom, one poor root!
And follows so the ever-running year,
And so he walks, insulting o'er his prey,
A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
The organs, though defunct and dead before,
As it is spoke, she never will admit me.
Or study where to meet some mistress fine,
A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements:
Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace,
I here renounce him and return to Henry.
Is he sure bound? look that you bind them fast.
Is that the worst this letter doth contain?
You shall not make me welcome:
of men's bodies? Well, a horn for my money, when
A bell rings
Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee.
Such griefs as you yourself do lay upon yourself.
To make distinction: provide this messenger:
When rich ones scarce tell true. To lapse in fulness
Alas, what joy shall noble Talbot have
And give more strength to that which hath too much,
Re-enter CURTIS
And for his sake wear the detested blot
Unmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refrain,
Iden, farewell, and be proud of thy victory. Tell
I cannot instantly raise up the gross
Shall, for that vast of night that they may work,
Our sufferance vainly: now the time is flush,
The shadow of my sorrow! ha! let's see:
desirous to lie with his mother earth?
The sun will not be seen to-day,
When you are over-earnest with your Brutus,
Happy, in that we are not over-happy,
Hath the late overthrow wrought this offence?
Sir Christopher, tell Richmond this from me:
And comes not in, o'er-ruled by prophecies,
With trial-fire touch me his finger-end:
Pardon me, dear Rosalind.
And would not harm me.
Measures my husband's sorrow by his woe:
Hark! hark! the Dauphin's drum, a warning bell,
He is not doubted. A word, Lucilius,
Cheerly, my lord	how fares your grace?
Where slept our scouts, or how are they seduced,
knavery, mark you now, as can be offer't, in your
Mine honour's such a ring:
Upon their woes whom fortune captivates!
And the great Hector's sword had lack'd a master,
And draw you into madness? think of it:
As you have done, that's what I can, induced
Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
The lane is guarded: nothing routs us but
It were impossible I should speed amiss.
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
That sir which serves and seeks for gain,
With amplest entertainment: my free drift
they were as cold as any stone, and so upward and
Peace!
Sir, my lord,
Exit
Whom I have ever honour'd as my king,
O mischief strangely thwarting!
Look you, here comes my mistress' page.
By each particular star in heaven and
Here comes your cousin.
Nay, then you lie: it is the blessed sun.
Advanced above pale envy's threatening reach.
Madam,
thee, my dearest partner of greatness, that thou
And see the noble ruin'd man you speak of.
They promised me eternal happiness,
But Moyses and Valerius follow him.
A senseless help when help past sense we deem.
It is a thing most precious. But for her,
Your majestee ave fausse French enough to deceive de
Yet, to have join'd with France in such alliance
As puts me from my faith. I tell you what,
the peace: you have showed yourself a wise
And gentlemen in England now a-bed
To the syllable.
The liker you, few taller are so young.
Why, man, what is the matter?
Shame come to Romeo!
Unto a poor but worthy gentleman: she's wedded,
Nay, prithee, dispatch: the gentleman is half
[Aside]  Eat it up all, Hortensio, if thou lovest me.
Then call'd you for the l'envoy.
Enter GLOUCESTER, with a torch
Open-eyed conspiracy
I have no relish of them, but abound
And lack not to lose still: thus, Indian-like,
Mustardseed.
Do you think 'tis this?
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
Were never orphans had so dear a loss!
keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.
And to her father turn our thoughts again,
To hurl at the beholders of my shame:
Remember me at court, where I was taught
Let the devil and his dam haunt you! What did you
Such and no other than event doth form it,
SCENE V. Another part of the platform.
SCENE III. A hall of justice.
Madam,
And if the boy have not a woman's gift
Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put
Assist, good friends.
Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast,
His captain, steward, deputy-elect,
Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest,
To York-place, where the feast is held.
They are at hand, and you shall quickly know.
Harpier cries 'Tis time, 'tis time.
And think it not the worst of an your fortunes
It pleases time and fortune to lie heavy
Might stop our countryman.
Be't at her father's.
are forfeited to me, and my honour's paid to him. He
And I beseech your majesty to make it
What shall we do? let us, that have our tongues,
Exeunt GREMIO and HORTENSIO
Ay, is it not a language I speak?
Rough and unhospitable: my willing love,
Counter-gate, which is as hateful to me as the reek
sweet queen.
Which shackles accidents and bolts up change,
policy, that mongrel cur, Ajax, against that dog of
Whither were you a-going?
All ready, and therefore, I pray thee, news.
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
his own head, the king is not to answer it.
Thou hast the sweetest face I ever look'd on.
To show itself but pride, for supple knees
Poor market folks that come to sell their corn.
The foe is merciless, and will not pity,
By all the everlasting gods, I'll go!
And take the present horror from the time,
remembered. My clown, who wants but something to
When it shines seldom in admiring eyes,
Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word:
Endured all weathers.
That I might so have rated my expense,
Resign to death, it is not worth the enjoying:
Sir John, we have had ill luck, we could never meet.
Listen, fair madam: let it be your glory
And dare, upon the warrant of my note,
Our forceful instigation? Our prerogative
Exeunt Fairies. TITANIA sleeps
The mighty dukes
all the gibbets and pressed the dead bodies. No eye
With words of sovereignty.
Ay, and that thou and the proudest of you all shall
RICHARD
An honest man he is, and hates the slime
Still we went coupled and inseparable.
And sleep and snore, and rend apparel out,--
Gently entwist, the female ivy so
Praising what is lost
With these forced thoughts, I prithee, darken not
Belike, some noble gentleman that means,
There will we mount, and thither walk on foot
Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil.
My blood hath been too cold and temperate,
With worms that are thy chamber-maids, O, here
His sparking eyes, replete with wrathful fire,
When I was sick, you gave me bitter pills,
To make this creature fruitful!
custom of exercises, and indeed it goes so heavily
To mow 'em down before me: but if I spared any
Therefore I do advise you, take this note:
That we remember. There is our commission,
Would ever have, to incur a general mock,
To answer from our home, the several messengers
These eyes that never did nor never shall
Yet see no shelter to avoid the storm,
SCENE IV. London. The Tower.
Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
Two of them did, the prince and Claudio, but the
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
myself. There's mine, beg another of thy daughters.
The cry of Talbot serves me for a sword,
Will you buy any tape,
That thou wilt war with God by murdering me?
Of every syllable that here was spoke.
Was timed with dying cries: alone he enter'd
how wit may be made a Jack-a-Lent, when 'tis upon
The gods look down, and this unnatural scene
Up to the eastern tower,
Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.
Throng'd to!
That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword,
Give him the cup.
Belike his wife, acquainted with his fits,
Will he swagger himself out on's own eyes?
How! a king's daughter?
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
business is performed, and remain, as he says, your
For what obscured light the heavens did grant
Out of the host, I must attend mine office,
My villany?
And I as rich in having such a jewel
me out of tune.
To thrust his icy fingers in my maw,
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
Exeunt BERTRAM and PAROLLES
his heart for a favour.
and untempering effect of my visage. Now, beshrew
There is no following her in this fierce vein:
fair weather that you make yourself: it is needful
Flourish
Enter FALSTAFF
Religiously provokes. Be pleased then
A more content in course of true delight
broke them in the sweet face of heaven: one that
Coin words till their decay against those measles,
thy soldiership, will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
I have heard in some sort of thy miseries.
Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
I have left asleep, and for the rest o' the fleet
Being the right idea of your father,
Did ever in so true a flame of liking
I warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing.
crept into any alderman's thumb-ring: a plague of
And did him service: he touch'd the ports desired,
With the plebeians swarming at their heels,
It stands in like request?
So should I give consent to flatter sin.
[Aside]  Not I:
constrained in't to call thee knave, knight.
Then, Angelo, thy fault's thus manifested,
fought a most prave pattle here in France.
Bear him ashore. I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.
The day that she was missing he was here:
Then let your will attend on their accords.
Let him alone, for I remember now
Then let the ladies tattle what they please.
His youngest son, and would not change that calling,
Exeunt
Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.
This jewel holds his building on my arm:
In spring time,  and c.
This fool-begg'd patience in thee will be left.
Master Ford, you must pray, and not follow the
Here comes Sir Toby halting, you shall hear more:
In troth, there's wondrous things spoke of him.
I may not answer.
Quick, dispatch, and send the head to Angelo.
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Capitol.
ACT IV
Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass.
In such a place, such sum or sums as are
You must not enter.
By the Bishop of Bayonne, then French ambassador,
Of beauteous Margaret hath astonish'd me:
Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
predeceased valour and dare not avouch in your deeds
And even these three days have I watch'd,
Under Mars, I.
Faith, like enough.
And many such-like liberties of sin:
His daughter's trial! that he did but see
her? Come, draw this curtain, and let's see your
Thy father's court? for thou shalt hear that I,
But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Upon her great disaster.
We sent to thee, to give thy rages balm,
This is he,
And bury all thy fear in my devices.
If they deny him justice: twenty merchants,
I fear, I fear 'twill prove a troublous world.
Well, you'll answer this one day. Fare ye well.
For this care of Tamora,
In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth?
By all conjectures: first, Kildare's attainder,
Fair maid, is't thou wilt do these wondrous feats?
Thou mayst prove false, at lovers' perjuries
What's the matter, lady?
Care no more to clothe and eat,
I am glad on 't: then we shall ha' means to vent
my king and master, so much my office.
of that quirk.
Prithee, nuncle, be contented, 'tis a naughty night
I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing.
And do not play in wench-like words with that
I have led you oft: carry me now, good friends,
Wishes were ever fools,--O, come, come, come,
And other of his conquer'd kingdoms, I
Thou sayest well, and it holds well too, for the
Sir, it is,
Well, he is gone, and with him go these thoughts.
begot, bastard instructed, bastard in mind, bastard
But thine doth fry.
Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him
Sweet madam.
Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
ill.
Reads
And kiss'd it, madam.
I, madam.
How now, my hardy, stout resolved mates!
My mistress will before the break of day
Her C's, her U's and her T's: why that?
Sirrah, what tidings? have you any letters?
Not after our command. Away with her,
Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline.
An eminent monsieur, that, it seems, much loves
point. O, the most piteous cry of the poor souls!
As doth a sail, fill'd with a fretting gust,
Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate:
please you to abrogate scurrility.
I Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal,
And when you would say something that is sad,
Upon a just survey, take Titus' part,
Husband!
Whilst our commission from Rome is read,
Thanks, royal sir.
Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
Cassandra doth foresee, and I myself
I kill'd a man and fear I was descried:
By all description this should be the place.
Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
have me whipped for lying, and sometimes I am
Have I pluck'd off, to grace thy brows withal:
Of my word, I have written to effect,
With all religious strength of sacred vows,
And have prevail'd as much on him as you.
Ere I will my virgin patent up
Come, woo me, woo me, for now I am in a holiday
Would I perform, if I might have my will,
Sir, I entreat you home with me to dinner.
devil himself will not eat a woman: I know that a
You see me here, you gods, a poor old man,
Hence hath offence his quick celerity,
That I profess myself in banqueting
of a lion.
me, I defied 'em still: when suddenly a file of
Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot,
I would not from your love make such a stray,
Good morrow, uncle Pandarus.
the bee of her honey.
Here stand a pair of honourable men,
Blow, villain, till thy sphered bias cheek
I will, my lord.
Silence, good mother, hear the embassy.
A contract of true love to celebrate,
counsellor, if you can command these elements to
of what's past, present, or to come, insensible of
Now that their souls are topful of offence.
Full well I wot the ground of all this grudge:
'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well:
In all my miseries, but thou hast forced me,
Say it be, 'tis true.
I hope I have your good will, father Page.
Which, if he take, shall quite unpeople her
this tabourer, he lays it on.
Then judge, great lords, if I have done amiss,
Aboard our dancing boat, make swift the pangs
To creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.
is writ. Look, the unfolding star calls up the
I beseech you, remember--
And that so lamely and unfashionable
Which every noble Roman bears of you.
Thy fault our law calls death, but the kind prince,
If thou hadst hands to help thee knit the cord.
He lived from all attainder of suspect.
Commend the paper to his gracious hand,
This day of shame, oppression, perjury.
Mark and perform it, see'st thou! for the fail
bones, their bones!
In pious rage the two delinquents tear,
As nothing else could match.
Ne'er did poor steward wear a truer grief
Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
conscionable than in putting on the mere form of
Call'd you, my lord?
'Me, an't shall please you, I am Anthony Dull.
Peter, stay at the gate.
And I do stand engaged to many Greeks,
Good morrow, Casca. Caius Ligarius,
Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
For thy sweet mistress' sake, because thou lovest her.
If one so rude and of so mean condition
The French ambassador upon that instant
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
I cannot mend it, I must needs confess,
for mine own part, I durst not laugh, for fear of
Say I am merry: come to me again,
Will not you?
How might she tongue me! Yet reason dares her no,
and as I told you, my young lady bade me inquire you
Unto my cell.
therefore welcome: I myself would have no power,
And with an unthrift love did run from Venice
Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee, and I
They ravish'd her, and cut away her tongue,
I am no traitor's uncle, and that word 'grace.'
Alarum
Attend the queen and us, we shall have need
That, if this rule were true, he should be gracious.
This case of that huge spirit now is cold:
'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.
end.
In England
Provost, my brother Angelo will not be altered,
Could be so rarely and exactly wrought,
grapes: if she had been blessed, she would never
O, sir, I can be modest.
As firmly as I hope for fertile England.
When it is least expected.
I know that, but I would have thee hence, and here again.
To make the sceptre his: these very words
Who is to be buried in't?
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
As he began, and not unknit himself
think in their hearts they may effect, they will
Am something nearer.
Flourish and march. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and soldiers
Flourish, and shout
His love.
Admit no other way to save his life,--
The French exclaim'd, the devil was in arms,
insanie: anne intelligis, domine? to make frantic, lunatic.
Shall see thee wither'd, bloody, pale and dead.
Be thou so too, and so break off your talk,
What's the matter, sir?
Cousin, I think thou art enamoured
To play my part in Fortune's pageant.
Ladies, there is an idle banquet attends you:
And I'll say nothing.
Windsor stag, and the fattest, I think, i' the
No, though thou call'st thyself a hotter name
I yield thee up my life.
Thou liest.
All the expected good we're like to hear
dissembling luxurious drab, of a sleeveless errand.
And quench his fiery indignation
held the very garment of Posthumus in more respect
Peace, ho! let us hear him.
Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
With untired spirits and formal constancy:
fellows are these that come after?
familiar with men's pockets as their gloves or their
Though I show'd sourly to him, once more offer'd
O, content thee.
Enter PAROLLES
Your safety, for the which myself and them
Lord, let me never have a cause to sigh,
Got 'tween asleep and wake? Well, then,
purgation. I have trod a measure, I have flattered
Sings
Are dogg'd with two strange followers.
In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,
Well, I'll end the song. Sirs, cover the while, the
What three things does drink especially provoke?
partly thy mother's word, partly my own opinion,
I'll know your business, Harry, that I will.
My best beloved and approved friend,
whom you should have been a pander: over and above
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
No more than my residing here at Rome
I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy stol'n name
With truth and plainness I do wear mine bare.
But fare ye well: 'tis partly my own fault,
More hair than wit? It may be, I'll prove it. The
There make before them. Look, the good man weeps!
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp?
And harsh in sound to thine.
their father, making such pitiful dole over them
Flow this way! A brave fellow! he keeps his tides
As boldness from my bosom, let 't not be doubted
all the rest from their functions: they put forth
Who with thy saffron wings upon my flowers
If thou dost, I shall never love thee after. Why,
ass, though it be not written down, yet forget not
And what of that?
But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
As chaste as unsunn'd snow. O, all the devils!
Began to water. Is thy master coming?
To Servant
I left him private,
No, cloven.
were the most needless creatures living, should we
head: and among other important and most serious
Reserve them till a merrier hour than this.
gentleman, whom I commend to you as a noble friend
Sore hurt and bruised: the dreadful Sagittary
To taste of thy most worst? Thy tyranny
Pray you, sir, whose daughter?
Pertaining thereunto, as fights and fireworks,
To make me slave to it, and for your sake
Who respects friend?
I think you have
'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
Mars's hot minion is returned again,
'Tis he.
you, Sir John: you owe me money, Sir John, and now
That all the treasons for these eighteen years
And go, Sir Paris, every one prepare
Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou
Thou told'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate.
There's fennel for you, and columbines: there's rue
Ah, let be, let be! thou art
Hold you still, I say,
if not, thou art an Hebrew, a Jew, and not worth the
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
And have no more of life than may suffice
That plays thee music? Gentle knave, good night,
My love thou art, my love I think.
Meantime we shall express our darker purpose.
stealing, fighting--Hark you now! Would any but
raves in saying nothing.
And duty bids defend, the other again
Sir, I know him, and I love him.
Long live Richard, England's royal king!
I beseech you, do.
You may do your will,
taken a solemn leave: his lordship will next
Than can my ears that tragic history.
heir-apparent, could the world pick thee out three
Be bold you do so grow in my requital
If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
time of my beauty, and am I now a subject for them?
Faith, I can cut a caper.
When my indispos ition put you back:
I am your neighbour, and was suitor first.
Good night to your redress! Is the duke gone?
so. Now come I to my father, Father, your blessing:
land now as cheap as stinking mackerel.
Have mind upon your health, tempt me no further.
Interest of territory, cares of state,--
pills to cool the reins. Call her in.
This Tarsus, o'er which I have the government,
And every one shall share i' the gains,
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
That dare as well answer a man indeed
That life, a very rebel to my will,
thou say, thou serge, nay, thou buckram lord! now
By which the world's best garden be achieved,
A pair of bleeding-hearts, thereon engrave
would he were, for I am now so far in offence with
Prodigious, and untimely brought to light,
And my heart too.
So much my conscience whispers in your ear,
Enter THALIARD
Yes, he is worthy of thee, and to pay thee for thy
But here must end the story of my life,
But I would have him dead, my Lord of Suffolk,
Is there a murderer here?  No. Yes, I am:
So, good night, with lullaby.
I'ld have you do it ever: when you sing,
fellow somewhat near the door, he should be a
The island's side.
He lies before me: dost thou understand me?
Had I three ears, I'ld hear thee.
Do you not smile at this, Lord Angelo?
which I will add
With his own sword,
There is my pledge, accept it, Somerset.
Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
And let me the canakin clink, clink,
A little time will melt her frozen thoughts
Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell.
Yea, the elect o' the land, who are assembled
bawdry, which is strange, with such delicate
About some half-hour hence,
Pursue we him on knees, for I have dream'd
than now in first seeing he had proved himself a
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds,
You have said, but whether wisely or no, let the
And the ill counsel of a desert place
All my sad captains, fill our bowls once more,
Sings
tick in a sheep than such a valiant ignorance.
The gods are witness,
I have loved thee,--
Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing,
Seeing thou hast proved so unnatural a father
Pox on't, I'll not meddle with him.
First, hear me speak.
sign of dolour to another, she did, with an 'Alas,'
For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them
my consent, and my consent goes not that way.
Exit CASSIO
Madam, yourself are not exempt in this,
These ears of mine, thou know'st did hear thee.
Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
Would not the beggar then forget himself?
This yellow slave
Signior Baptista, of whom I hear so well.
My gracious sovereign, on the western coast
Some to discover islands far away,
Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
Of thee and me, and sighs, and takes my glove,
That he his high authority abused,
Was given me by one that had some power,
world he is: if I find a hole in his coat, I will
Be hostages for Rome.
And can do nought but wail her darling's loss,
In election for the Roman empery,
Thou must restore.
The seat of Gaunt, dukedom of Lancaster:
Farewell Andronicus, my noble father,
change this purpose,
Our fair appointments may be well perused.
And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
Remember to avenge me on the French.'
Would leave your griefs, and take my counsel.
Ill spirit, I would hold more talk with thee.
night, where each of us fell in praise of our
She was of Tyrus the king's daughter,
Prunes the immortal wing and cloys his beak,
This wine for Lepidus!
Why, are all your beggars whipped, then?
If they shall fail, I, with mine enemies,
I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon,
Prithee, son, do, for we must be gentle, now we are
She is importunate, indeed distract:
For thou thyself hast been a libertine,
I might in virtue, beauties, livings, friends,
A pack of sorrows which would press you down,
Making both it unable for itself,
And pious action we do sugar o'er
Put off that gown, Trinculo, by this hand, I'll have
Why, it contains no king?
Be't so. Proceed.
This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me:
Sir,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
All-worthy villain!
This only is the witchcraft I have used:
Where you with Silvia may confer at large,
You'll turn a child again.
Exeunt all but KING HENRY
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile,
So I have. Farewell
Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions:
O, know he is the bridle of your will.
not a holiday fool there but would give a piece
And tell him so, for I will ease my heart,
Now, afore God, I am so vexed, that every part about
It shall not wind with such a deep indent,
Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome,
Is he gone, and hath nothing?
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
I'll strive, with troubled thoughts, to take a nap,
By a familiar demonstration of the working, my tough senior.
Punish my life for tainting of my love!
Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
my daughter.
drunk, yet I am not altogether an ass.
Traduced by ignorant tongues, which neither know
Into this chiefest thicket of the park.
There is a plot against my life, my crown,
Take the devil in thy mind, and relieve him not: he
All leave us else, but let your cares o'erlook
[Reads]  'which, as I remember, hight Costard,'--
O, fie upon them! Some such squire he was
To QUEEN ELIZABETH
When you and those poor number saved with you
To prick thy finger, though to wound his heart:
Ay, madam, knowingly.
My noble father,
How now for mitigation of this bill
He greets me well. Your master, Pindarus,
O unbid spite! is sportful Edward come?
That befal preposterously.
We must be married, or we must live in bawdry.
Reports, the Volsces with two several powers
Enter LEONTES, ANTIGONUS, Lords, and Servants
Hang upon his pent-house lid,
Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter
Dies
Or in the night, imagining some fear,
[Aside to CLEOPATRA]  To make his followers weep.
Re-enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, BIANCA, BAPTISTA, HORTENSIO, GRUMIO, and Train
What's the matter?
The ambassador is silenced?
Twenty crowns.
The question did at first so stagger me,
With purpose presently to leave this war.
Yea, marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watch
a' bade me lay more clothes on his feet: I put my
Give me the map there. Know that we have divided
plain-dealing man?
[To BRUTUS]  Be that you seem, truly your
I have no way, and therefore want no eyes,
And, where I thought the remnant of mine age
Farewell, thou lob of spirits, I'll be gone:
Shylock, do you hear?
my heart will be blown up by the root.
And most assured that he is a friend
Not I, sir, you are my elder.
One, two, three: time, time!
good counsel.
CASSIO and RODERIGO are borne off
And further he desires to know of you,
Dissembling courtesy! How fine this tyrant
[Aside]  And me, when he approacheth to your presence.
Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate:
You must perforce accomplish as you may.
That this same child of honour and renown,
And I for Ganymede.
came in foot and hand, and with a thought seven of
But prove a chief offender in the same?
hurt home to-day? he's not hurt: why, this will do
Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say
Come, Desdemona: I have but an hour
What horrible fancy's this?
I speak not this in estimation,
No, do not.
nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and to have
The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier,
Most heartily to pray for her.
Is now in England, ransacking the church,
well: thy casement I need not open, for I look
That are without him, as place, riches, favour,
you of this man that takes me for the general? He's
What, John Rugby! I pray thee, go to the casement,
Brother, farewell.
Therefore I will not disdain.
Let not a traitor live!
Help, ho!--Lieutenant,--sir,--Montano,--sir,
Wherefore should you do this?
They lay hands on YORK, who struggles
Out of this wood do not desire to go:
Enter Chorus
Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
SCENE IV. Other plains in Gascony.
soldier to cut his prisoner's throat. O, 'tis a
With child, perhaps?
So do I too, if it be not too much: brings a'
Lay me, O, where
Enter CLEOPATRA, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
Wouldst thou have laugh'd had I come coffin'd home,
DON
We'll hear him what he says. Whence are you?
We purpose her no shame: give her what comforts
Will cry it o'er again: it is a hint
He must not live to trumpet forth my infamy,
With our pure honours, nor attend the foot
distinctly billeted, already in the entertainment,
High be our thoughts: I know my uncle York
I'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough.
Have scared thy husband from the use of wits.
That you will take your instant leave o' the king
And not a man of them that we shall take
The country, our dear nurse, or else thy person,
Boundless intemperance
O Cupid, Cupid, Cupid!
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Captain Fluellen, you must come presently to the
Thy mother's dead.
What, here? O nation, that thou couldst remove!
The last true duties of thy noble son!
In courage, courtship and proportion:
This is clean kam.
O me! this sight of death is as a bell,
To compass such a boundless happiness!
As if they saw some wondrous monument,
As I took note of the place, it cannot be far where
There's no disjunction to be made, but by--
But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye:
The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,
Man?
My liege, her ear
My parts, my title and my perfect soul
Enter PISTOL, Hostess, NYM, BARDOLPH, and Boy
He smiled at it: I told him you were coming:
before him.
You have congreeted, let it not disgrace me,
I am glad to see your highness.
SCENE II. Before ALBANY's palace.
And take my heart with thee.
No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England:
'Tis his own blame, hath put himself from rest,
I have stol'n nought, nor would not, though I had found
Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends,
Her reason to herself is only known,
Some mark of virtue on his outward parts:
It will be pastime passing excellent,
It adds a precious seeing to the eye,
A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
Arise sir Richard and Plantagenet.
O gentle Aaron, we are all undone!
Nor be grieved: she is of good esteem,
modesty which is so lost.
You are well favour'd, and your looks foreshow
And will, no doubt, tempt him to any thing.
for her favours, I could lay on like a butcher and
And all the number of his fair demands
Juno sings her blessings upon you.
Lay not thy hands on me, forbear, I say,
For your life you durst not!
Resolve your angry father, if my tongue
As't please your lordship: I'll leave you.
Man's life's as cheap as beast's: thou art a lady,
Or wilt thou sleep? we'll have thee to a couch
You must say 'paragon:' a paramour is, God bless us,
Would you have a love-song, or a song of good life?
these days. The king has killed his heart. Good
A Roman.
O, if I could, what grief should I forget!
How now, sir! What's your name? and what's the matter?
I have many other ways to die, meantime
About surrender up of Aquitaine
Yes, my good lord,
neat's leather have gone upon my handiwork.
To expel sickness, but prolong his hour!
Exeunt PAGE, FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
And as the morning steals upon the night,
Where hadst thou it?
[Reads]  'Item, That no woman shall come within a
have his wit this year.
See, lord and father, how we have perform'd
Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungs
even now into my hand by an under-skinker, one that
Nay, he nods at us, as who should say, I'll be even
To the descent and dust below thy foot,
O most delicate fiend!
I think her old familiar is asleep:
To the end of generation!
Unnatural though thou art. Their understanding
The execution of my big-swoln heart
They sleep
Even on my eaning time, but whether there
But Nature never framed a woman's heart
But to the purpose--for we cite our faults,
Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny
No, mighty liege, therefore mistrust me not.
them, some upon the debts they owe, some upon their
When he had carried Rome and that we look'd
[Aside]  Plantagenet, I see, must hold his tongue,
Married to your good service, stay till death:
their coats
She knew his love, lest she make sport at it.
None, madam.
What we shall say we have and what we owe.
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
Watch'd for your voices, for Your voices bear
Re-enter others of the Watch, with FRIAR LAURENCE
The lamb will never cease to follow him.
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
If e'er thou stand at mercy of my sword,
Well, go to, go to.
if the old fantastical duke of dark corners had been
Whose beauty did astonish the survey
Since all the power thereof it doth apply
On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
you speak best unto the purpose, it is not worth the
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
What's his name and birth?
I do conceive.
For there's the house: that chain will I bestow--
Welcome, mistress.
And drown me with their sweetness. O, come hither,
a displeasure against you, look you,--
Weeps she still, say'st thou? Dost thou think in time
Ascribes the glory of his conquest got
I had rather, forsooth, go before you like a man
Exeunt
Yea, and furr'd moss besides, when flowers are none,
Ay, madam, but returns again to-night.
The casting forth to crows thy baby-daughter
C'est assez pour une fois: allons-nous a diner.
As if Olympus to a molehill should
Well, I will muse no further. Master Fenton,
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
What is most right: mine honour was not yielded,
Then set before my face the Lord Aumerle.
Come, come, for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep
The profit of the state. For your great graces
his form, as you are like to find him in the proof
I do attend here on the general,
Which in the very meeting fall and die.
Think us no churls, nor measure our good minds
Which seasons comfort. Who may this be? Fie!
Whither?
In following him, I follow but myself,
'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
Who? God?
To the disposing of it nought rebell'd.
With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,
In sap-consuming winter's drizzled snow,
Hath given the dare to Caesar, and commands
O, whither shall we fly from this reproach?
to master Jew's?
by the heads, dogs and bears by the neck, monkeys by
Be warned by me, then: they that ride so and ride
Why should we in our peevish opposition
But took me in my throes,
Especially for those occasions
Your honour knows what 'tis to say well enough.
And, for he understands you are in arms,
Exeunt
Scruple, and prick, on certain speeches utter'd
Aside to BRUTUS
If that thy master would gain by thee,
Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner:
Yes, here I tender it for him in the court,
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
Now, by my sceptre's awe, I make a vow,
To such a sudden flood of mutiny.
So, so, there!
Is scatter'd and disjoin'd from fellowship.
Delivers in such apt and gracious words
I'm glad 'tis there: now I would pray our monsieurs
Were two full moons, he had a thousand noses,
Why, Clarence, to myself.
Most sweet queen,--
My treasure's in the harbour, take it. O,
For I must talk of murders, rapes and massacres,
And read out this.
With one that ties his points?
Not all thy counsel.
Hail, sir! my lord, lend ear.
Sirrah, were I at home,
Yet an arch-villain keeps him company.
If she do bid me pack, I'll give her thanks,
which I hear from common rumours: now Lord Timon's
But, soft! methinks I do digress too much,
Cesario, you are like to be much advanced: he hath
SCENE III. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
And that which spites me more than all these wants,
To come ashore. Therefore, you men of Harfleur,
Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
In the Rialto you have rated me
Madam, your father here doth intimate
And then, in speaking, not to incur the last,
Come, come, my son, I'll bring thee on thy way:
his head, and bring them both upon two poles hither.
Come, let us four to dinner: I dare say
That some plain man recount their purposes
Thou hast not, cousin,
And when I ask'd you what the matter was,
Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her,
'Tis a good piece.
Most lamentable day, most woful day,
And not for justice? What, shall one of us
Enter a Messenger
To every ticklish reader! set them down
Ay, sir.
shoe is my father: no, this left shoe is my father:
Will offer night-oblations to thee. Thaisa,
Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments,
Cry fie upon my grave!
Should with his lion gait walk the whole world,
We must follow the leaders.
Think not on him till to-morrow:
Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles, slaves,
Christian.
Sure, the boy heard me: Brutus hath a suit
Must not continue friends.
A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence
With holy breath.
Is there not my father, my uncle and myself? lord
Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.
Enter CASSIUS
Is he disposed to mirth? I hope he is.
Plainly as heaven sees earth and earth sees heaven,
Exeunt
As you have been, that's for my country:
A noble boy! Who would not do thee right?
Exit CLEOPATRA
Nay, then, God be wi' you, an you talk in blank verse.
For by his rusty outside he appears
Causeless, perhaps. But pardon me, sweet aunt:
For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
What says the other troop?
In peril of precipitation
In better phrase and matter than thou didst.
To seal her father's eyes up close as oak-
Will rush into the state: it cannot be.
O peace, Prince Dauphin!
Saw her abed, and in the morning early
Doth ravish like enchanting harmony,
I hear a knocking
Pardon this fault, and by my soul I swear
Enter, as to the Parliament, HENRY BOLINGBROKE,  DUKE OF AUMERLE, NORTHUMBERLAND, HENRY PERCY, LORD  FITZWATER, DUKE OF SURREY, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,  the Abbot Of Westminster, and another Lord, Herald, Officers, and BAGOT
respect and acquaintance, but I find none.
I have broke your hest to say so!
I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.
do not doubt but to hear them say, it is a sweet
long peace, ten times more dishonourable ragged than
Not sickness should detain me.
fits you, search out of the calendar, and nobody
A curse shall light upon the limbs of men,
Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
No more than to be Cawdor. Say from whence
What lets but one may enter at her window?
well. Heaven prosper our sport! No man means evil
The time will not allow the compliment
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
Stand back, Lord Salisbury, stand back, I say,
Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
Think'st thou to catch my life so pleasantly
Sound a flourish. Exeunt
For he is set so only to himself
You urged me as a judge, but I had rather
Proclaim'd at market-crosses, read in churches,
So under Him that great supremacy,
Alexander Iden, that's my name,
For this proud mock I'll be thy slaughterman,
When thou comest thither--
My men should call me 'lord:' I am your goodman.
The Grecians' cause.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Nay, whip me then: he'll rather
Environed with a wilderness of sea,
When would you have it done, sir?
Of Herne the hunter, let us not forget.
We have seen him set himself.
woman, the modest wife, the virtuous creature, that
We men may say more, swear more: but indeed
Have thou the ordering of this present time.
Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him,
And never come mischance between us twain!
I know thou didst not, thou'rt not such a villain:
So.
Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit,
I'll not endure him.
Katharine Queen of England,  and c.
Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar,
Out of his charity, being then appointed
With all my heart, I'll gossip at this feast.
not Orlando.
See where it comes! Behavior, what wert thou
O bitter consequence,
Lucilius' Servant	So much?
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Exit
Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
Condemn'd upon the act of fornication
Not seeing what is likely to ensue.
Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
I would entreat you rather to put on
Go, go into old Titus' sorrowful house,
And shows the ragged entrails of the pit:
Left in the conduct of the bold Iago,
Ay, Biddy, come with me. What, man! 'tis not for
I pardon him, as God shall pardon me.
'Tis even so, yet you are Warwick still.
Death, traitor! nothing could have subdued nature
Ye see, I drink the water of mine eyes.
Exeunt
Who ever yet could sound thy bottom? find
There had she not been long, but she became
Being full of supper and distempering draughts,
Come hither, Moor:
But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me
give me so much of your time in exchange of it, as
Exit CROMWELL
Sir Topas!
You have bereft me of all words, lady.
And let them die that age and sullens have,
Too far in years to be a pupil now:
I had rather be alone.
looked for Master Caius, that calls himself doctor of physic?
A march afar
Let me go, sir,
What man is this?
For Brutus only overcame himself,
Inhabits in the finest wits of all.
I was sent for to the king, but why, I know not.
As hell, Sir Topas.
The April 's in her eyes: it is love's spring,
Sin from thy lips? O trespass sweetly urged!
Whether I live or die, be you the sons
Though Suffolk dare him twenty thousand times.
Sleep a little.
Sir, in good sooth, in sincere verity,
And but attended by a simple guard,
Come, go we in procession to the village.
the knaves, you need not to fear the bawds.
I stood engaged: but when I had subscribed
To be or none or little, though a devil
So much for that. Now for our Irish wars:
And like a scurvy politician, seem
More than his singularity, he goes
Good, now, hold thy tongue.
last time he searched for him, in a basket, protests
Makes flexible the knees of knotted oaks,
My unsoil'd name, the austereness of my life,
Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.
And module of confounded royalty.
If there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of
Whilst I am bound to wonder, I am bound
henceforth let a Welsh correction teach you a good
Exit
Who keeps the tent now?
Exit
I would not, Cassius, yet I love him well.
He has no children. All my pretty ones?
Better it were they all came by the father,
'Twas said they saw but one, and no discerner
To Epidamnum, till my factor's death
No marvel, then, though he were ill affected:
flourishes, and a poor maid is undone.
appelez-vous le col?
Toward this remedy, whereupon we are
Our enemies have beat us to the pit:
Now breathe we, lords: good fortune bids us pause,
His wits begin to unsettle.
Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother:
Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind,
Enter CORIOLANUS, AUFIDIUS, and others
Exit
SCENE X. The camp of the Volsces.
Well, the beginning, that is dead and buried.
Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
Periods his comfort.
All happiness unto my lord the king!
For 'twere no charity, yet, to wash your blood
And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
shortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,
I'faith, sir, you shall never need to fear:
Your sword or mine, or masterless leaves both
The Genius and the mortal instruments
No quips now, Pistol! Indeed, I am in the waist two
As this which now I draw.
O, now, let Richmond and Elizabeth,
This gallant Hotspur, this all-praised knight,
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
And so it is. For this time I will leave you:
O Tamora! was ever heard the like?
Which nature loathes--take thou the destined tenth,
From the rich Jew, a special deed of gift,
Get you a place.
Deserved this hearing--bid 'em send o' the instant
To do him good?
Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds
Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest:
This secret is so weighty, 'twill require
Exeunt
Lucilius' Servant	Mark, how strange it shows,
Hence, vile instrument!
Come to great confusion:
Which lets go by some sixteen years and makes her
No other than I appear.
thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs, or
Why, how now, cousin! wherefore sink you down?
That are misled upon your cousin's part,
Can you eat roots, and drink cold water? no.
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
Come, shadow, come and take this shadow up,
names, your ages, of what having, breeding, and any
And it shall please me well: for mine own part,
They say, our French lack language to deny,
Cousin, throw up your gage, do you begin.
And so he thinks, and is no less apparent
The music plays, vouchsafe some motion to it.
What, what? first praise me and again say no?
a fancy that he hath to strange disguises, as, to be
brief and the tedious of it, and he's of a most
beseech your society.
For on thy fortune I repose myself.
For we will shake him, or worse days endure.
Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
Re-enter GRATIANO
His child is like to her, fair as you are:
Than die ere I hear more: strive, man, and speak.
Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron,
O, shall I say, I thank you, gentle wife?
[Within]  Away, you rogue, away! I am sleepy.
Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb,
I learn'd of thee. How! not dead? not dead?
Draw together,
had four quarrels, and like to have fought one.
Upon thy princely warrant, I descend
For my example.
Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer.
Nothing is done to purpose. Therefore, beseech you,--
Enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
Whose double tongue may with a mortal touch
I will conduct you where you shall be lodged,
as sure as his guts are made of puddings.
I might have told hereafter.
Go to kennel, Pompey, go.
Exit IAGO
Than words can witness, or your thoughts can guess.
Shall weigh thee to the beam, that wilt not know,
BISHOP
Enter CINNA
Now, Lychorida!
Exit
In reason nothing.
Not only take away, but let your sentence
By means whereof this breast of mine hath buried
There were a heart in Egypt.
That as a waist doth girdle you about,
Exit
Your lordship is the most patient man in loss, the
Deserves a corner: would all other women
vein of him.
By my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty,
To rouse a lion than to start a hare!
With him the husband of this lovely lady:
would change places with his officer, for, look you,
His noble cousin is right welcome hither,
For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich,
ladies' flesh at a million a dram, you cannot
I should do so: you shall be miss'd at court,
Bardolph!
Troy, yet upon his basis, had been down,
Not measuring what use we made of them.
Your fortunes are alike.
Having alike your cause? Of this my letters
Than bring a burthen of dishonour home
He and Aufidius can no more atone
Till now infixed I beheld myself
O, then, what graces in my love do dwell,
And so am I, my name is Walter Whitmore.
No, not so much perdition as an hair
Nay, I'll watch you for that, and that's one of the
Is that we scarce are men and you are gods.
But here without you shall be so received
With vile participation: not an eye
Foul devil, for God's sake, hence, and trouble us not,
'Zounds, where thou wilt, lad, I'll make one, an I
ACT III
Lovell!
Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome,
By many an ounce--he dropp'd it for his country,
She it is.
That vow a long and weary pilgrimage,
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
Thou keep'st a wife herself, thyself a maid.
young Master Launcelot.
Go, lead the way, I long to see my prison.
Where hast thou been, sister?
Prithee, hold thy peace.
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
Fie, for shame!
Exeunt Hostess, FRANCIS, and BARDOLPH
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
Thus hath the course of justice wheel'd about,
When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
You take from me a great part of myself,
Had I a sister were a grace, or a daughter a goddess,
Where nothing wants that want itself doth seek.
What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?
That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
The Castle in Saint Alban's, Somerset
Enter EROS
after three-pence a bay: if you live to see this
But, pray you, stir no embers up. Here comes
sir, is a good tripping measure, or the bells of
If thou do pardon, whosoever pray,
DON
Will you be gone?
''Tis dinner-time,' quoth I, 'My gold!' quoth he,
For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun
With honours like himself.
Then, England's messenger, return in post,
The Earl of Wiltshire is already there.
Like an old tale still, which will have matter to
Where is he, hear you?
Than camels in the war, who have their provand
O heavenly powers, restore him!
So did you me, my liege.
Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence,
--said I well?--and thy name shall be Brook. It is
As mine own face. If there be cords, or knives,
As did the former lions of your blood.
And they indeed had no cause to mistrust,
And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,
Be patient, lords, and give them leave to speak.
Why, then, your visor should be thatched.
And sing it to her bones, sing it to-night:
Boding to all--he had my handkerchief.
I have lost my gown.
Poor knave, I blame thee not, thou art o'er-watch'd.
Away! for vengeance comes along with them:
Which is as brief as I have known a play,
Stand you directly in Antonius' way,
Who may that be, I pray you?
it, should dishearten his army.
You shall have any thing.
And cleave to no revenge but Lucius.
To the last syllable of recorded time,
I must be present at your conference.
You pay a great deal too dear for what's given freely.
It is enacted in the laws of Venice,
the face of the gods.
This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke
Of maiden's patience. Hast thou slain him, then?
Sir, he hath never fed of the dainties that are bred
Discourse is heavy, fasting, when we have supp'd,
In them a wilder nature than the business
carried away all that was in the king's tent,
But are my brother's powers set forth?
You have my father's house,--But, what? we are friends.
O Desdemona! away! away! away!
Marry,
He hath paid you all he promised you, may be, he has
So, now go tell, an if thy tongue can speak,
How now, Captain Fluellen! come you from the bridge?
Lo, citizens, he says he is content:
And while it is so, none so dry or thirsty
Their manners are so apish.
If more, the more thou hast wrong'd me.
Ay, noble father, if our words will serve.
Touch their effects in this: thyself art coming
To hold a rival place with one of them,
Sole imperator and great general
By the discandying of this pelleted storm,
And be it moon, or sun, or what you please:
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
Will you two help to hasten them?
there, his brother, the bull,--the primitive statue,
And therefore am I bold and resolute.
With something rich about me: from that place
Guienne, Champagne, Rheims, Orleans,
Exit from above
Let us be led within thy bosom, Richard,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
You are the musty chaff, and you are smelt
Fear not thy sons, they shall do well enough.
toasts-and-butter, with hearts in their bellies no
very first house, of the first and second cause:
Sleep shall neither night nor day
Just as high as my heart.
Return those duties back as are right fit,
Well, and you be not turned Turk, there's no more
Truly, sir, I would desire you to clap into your
What can be avoided
and did the third a blessing against his will, if
on's teeth.
Let not that doctor e'er come near my house:
I am sick of that grief too, as I understand how all
Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song!
And take our goodly aged men by the beards,
All places yield to him ere he sits down,
so to heart the banishment of that worthy
Enter ANNE and an Old Lady
Where'er it be, in heaven or in earth.
And let his knights have colder looks among you,
Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm?
It is too late.
Seize thee that list: if once I find thee ranging,
SCENE VIII. A plain near Actium.
Ay, by gar, and 'tis a boy: by gar, I'll raise all Windsor.
Ay, forsooth, I'll fetch it you.
SCENE I. A cavern. In the middle, a boiling cauldron.
yourself and all the world know to be no petter
Scaling his present bearing with his past,
Even he, madam.
And now worth nothing? Shall I have the thought
Some means to come to shrift this afternoon,
On thy too ready hearing? Disloyal! No:
Not of that dye which their investments show,
Repeat your will and take it.
Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil
Commit my cause in balance to be weigh'd.
The history of all her secret thoughts:
Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are
I must not think there are
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
The king hath dispossess'd himself of us:
Until thy head be circled with the same.
the tune of 'Green Sleeves.' What tempest, I trow,
half, hauf, neighbour vocatur nebor, neigh
Except this city now by us besieged,
Lord of Salisbury!
Long continuance, and increasing,
Exit
Drum. Enter BRUTUS, CASSIUS, and their Army, LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, MESSALA, and others
Wherein the worship of the whole world lies.
To say thou'lt enter friendly.
Varro's Servant	What is a whoremaster, fool?
Descend to darkness and the burning lake!
By many a dern and painful perch
Fall'n into taint: which to believe of her,
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
He that ears my land spares my team and gives me
some goose, in this.
Exit, guarded
Confounded be thyself! Speak not, be gone.
You know the wager?
You tender more your person's honour than
Guns heard
You have prevailed: I will depart in quiet,
she comes weeping for her only mistress' death.
thing, if men were as they have been. Get this done
Will you be so good, scauld knave, as eat it?
Do you hear?
I think it well, my lord.
and Poins, he is of too high a region, he knows too
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
'Silvia, this night I will enfranchise thee.'
With all my heart.
Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires,
Further in the proceeding.
The tongue of Isabel. She's come to know
But I do find it cowardly and vile,
During all question of the gentle truce,
How shall I dote on her with more advice,
And now I find report a very liar,
That Lucius' banishment was wrongfully,
For that I do suspect the lusty Moor
In charging you with matters, to commit you,
'Tis true, the raven doth not hatch a lark:
Now I perceive that she hath made compare
What tidings send our scouts? I prithee, speak.
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
More villain thou. Well, push him out of doors,
What, were you banish'd thence?
When weeping made you break the story off,
But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers,
But we shall meet, and break our minds at large.
Upon the beached verge of the salt flood,
What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
Can snore upon the flint, when resty sloth
Then whither he goes, thither let me go.
Lay her i' the earth:
Or in the heart, or in the head?
Interpretation should abuse and call this
Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath
In fine, delivers me to fill the time,
My lord, I must confess I know this woman:
To house or housekeeping: then, at my farm
Even such a passion doth embrace my bosom:
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Bum, sir.
To this last costly treaty, the interview,
Is ebony like her? O wood divine!
More spongy to suck in the sense of fear,
Still confirmation:
And hale him up and down, all swearing, if
Full of strange shapes, of habits and of forms,
We all expect a gentle answer, Jew.
And, though mine enemy, restored again
[Aside]  Though I am not naturally honest, I am so
If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antique,
Cuckold! Wittol!--Cuckold! the devil himself hath
you seem to be? Can you think to blow out the
Will I look to't.
Ay, such a pleasure as incaged birds
He said he had wounds, which he could show
Sir, I may tell it you, I think I have
More fertile-fresh than all the field to see,
I will not give my part of this sport for a pension
The curse of heaven and men succeed their evils!
'Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself:
From rascals worse than they.
Cornets. Enter KING HENRY VIII, leaning on  CARDINAL WOLSEY's shoulder, the Nobles, and LOVELL,  CARDINAL WOLSEY places himself under KING HENRY VIII's feet on his right side
Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.
How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus
My vouch against you, and my place i' the state,
and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
Contaminate our fingers with base bribes,
Was not that nobly done? Ay, and wisely too,
The service and the loyalty I owe,
Saw ye none enter since I slept?
Besides the things that we have heard and seen,
Let me request you off: our graver business
How needless was it then to ask the question!
Enter SEBASTIAN
foul hill, my master riding behind my mistress,--
Send for the county, go tell him of this:
Straight, how 'tis like to go.
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
Poor sick Fidele!
Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen.
How now! has sorrow made thee dote already?
A mean most meanly, and in ushering
From hence, from Silvia and from me thy friend.
This seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon, go.
He's of the colour of the nutmeg.
By vain though apt affection.
'GONERIL.'
Then, farewell, heat, and welcome, frost!
How fares thy mistress?
Why, then, let kibes ensue.
The French, advised by good intelligence
And thus I search it with a sovereign kiss.
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
To signify their coming.
Music. Here a dance of Shepherds and Shepherdesses
Fear her not, Lucius: somewhat doth she mean:
To answer other business. Shrug'st thou, malice?
Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes,
foolish woman your wife! she gave it him, and he
I know them both.
Of an invincible unconquer'd spirit!
Rear up his body, wring him by the nose.
I am good friends with my father and may do any thing.
Hadst thou but loved him half so well as I,
Exeunt ACHILLES, HECTOR, AJAX, and NESTOR
That if one break, the other will hold, or, if both
Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
old turning the key.
And still proclaimeth, as he comes along,
My son corrupts a well-derived nature
Cats, that can judge as fitly of his worth
But this effusion of such manly drops,
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
Clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
Speak, gentle niece, what stern ungentle hands
And here he comes.
She carry armour as she hath begun.
The extreme parts of time extremely forms
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse:
Exit Vintner
What?
first. Come.
That he approves the common liar, who
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
The tongues of mocking wenches are as keen
the woman and I will do as we may.
Arts-man, preambulate, we will be singled from the
SCENE III. The same.
And youthful still! in your doublet and hose this
Were not in fault, for she was beautiful,
Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook
All form is formless, order orderless,
How many women would do such a message?
A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen
The senators alone of this great world,
But hearts for the event.
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
And they shall do their office. So, be gone,
If heaven had pleased to have given me longer life
To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train,
dishonesty shall appear in me.
We are the Jasons, we have won the fleece.
As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
Before I positively herein:
She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
Exeunt
What! shall we curse the planets of mishap
Mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope,
It is so, indeed, he is no less than a stuffed man:
her reasons, her master reasons, her prayers, her
In which, good friar, I shall desire your help.
With my confineless harms.
Is thither gone, to crave the French king's sister
Yes, good faith, every dram of it, and I will not
What craker is this same that deafs our ears
Bi-fold authority! where reason can revolt
And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
Probal to thinking and indeed the course
What, standest thou still, and hearest such a
I'll privily away. I love the people,
Suffolk first died: and York, all haggled over,
Wait in the presence.
Till I have learned thy language, for thy tongue
Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need,--
you must go visit the good lady that lies in.
Enter JESSICA and LAUNCELOT
For courage mounteth with occasion:
Approach, ye Furies fell!
Sir, the king is a noble gentleman, and my familiar,
But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,
What countryman? what name? what parentage?
God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is
If it be that, or any that was hers,
For that which thou hast sworn to do amiss
Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak,
Hard-favour'd Richard? Richard, where art thou?
Hath with the king's blood stain'd the king's own land.
[Aside]  Now, by the gods, he could not please me better.
It ill beseems this presence to cry aim
Who's there?
And be not peevish-fond in great designs.
To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood,
False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
Not a frown further. Go release them, Ariel:
But is he often thus?
Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream,
My absolute power and place here in Vienna,
What man dare, I dare:
But altogether lacks the abilities
That which I have than, coveting for more,
thy discreet heart think it. Her eye must be fed,
His arms thus leagued: I thought he slept, and put
Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers
And my ending is despair,
With some men else, who think themselves as safe
Where are these lads? where are these hearts?
Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light,
An earnest advocate to plead for him.
You more invest it! Ebbing men, indeed,
That we were all, as some would seem to be,
The midwife wonder'd and the women cried
And the great care of goods at random left
And show'd how well you love your prince and country:
The reverend'st throat in Athens. So I leave you
Beelzebub? Here's a farmer, that hanged
Very well mended. Kiss him for that, good widow.
Enforce the present execution
'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful:
of either's moiety.
And bitter shame hath spoil'd the sweet world's taste
Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
It shall be speeded well.
And he that throws not up his cap for joy
Where the place?
To Milford-Haven.
No occupation, all men idle, all,
Their hands and faces were an badged with blood,
And swell so much the higher by their ebb.
And my reliances on his fracted dates
Lo, as the bark, that hath discharged her fraught,
To wipe out our ingratitude with loves
Because till now we never saw your face:
Is to come fairly off from the great debts
The Lord's anointed temple, and stole thence
For practising to steal away a lady,
I never spent an hour's talk withal:
SCENE IX. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
To prove you a cipher.
Not better than he, by her own report.
Avaunt! and quit my sight! let the earth hide thee!
Say then, who dost thou mean shall be her king?
sluttishness may come hereafter. But be it as it may
Come, come, 'tis only I that must disgrace thee.
intelligence in his power against you, and that with
Banish your dotage, banish usury,
Tempt him not so too far, I wish, forbear:
Enter PROTEUS and LAUNCE
If it be ne'er so false, a true gentleman may swear
Good Master Brook, I desire more acquaintance of you.
Who tells us life's but breath, to trust it error.
a three-piled piece, I warrant thee: I had as lief
Upon a sore injunction: my sweet mistress
She false with Cassio!--did you say with Cassio?
he fit for't, indeed.
I guess thy message. Is the queen deliver'd?
Enter Chorus
I warrant you, madam.
A gentleman, sent from the king, to see you.
Which are the children of an idle brain,
The fountain from the which my current runs,
Shall we hear from thee, Tyrrel, ere we sleep?
You two are book-men: can you tell me by your wit
your whores, sir, being members of my occupation,
Than I myself, poor man.
that made the wings she flew withal.
Mistress Page, remember you your cue.
Why then, we'll make exchange, here, take you this.
whisper him in your behalfs, and if it be in man
Thus, sir:
SCENE VIII. Southwark.
summer's day, a most lovely gentleman-like man:
Love's reason's without reason: the bier at door,
Commend my service to me sovereign.'
If any think brave death outweighs bad life
have missingly noted, he is of late much retired
That noble minds keep ever with their likes,
Who cannot be new built, nor has no friends,
Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom.
And wish thee to a shrewd ill-favour'd wife?
Their tenor good, I trust.
Enter HOTSPUR
With her that hateth thee and hates us all,
Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus!
Thou wouldst appear most ugly. He is married?
So smile the heavens upon this holy act,
The moon shines bright: in such a night as this,
Witness the fortune he hath had in France.
No faith, no honesty in men, all perjured,
The old cock.
You being their mouths, why rule you not their teeth?
nurse, or his cook, or his laundry, his washer, and
Walk under his huge legs and peep about
What since thou sworest is sworn against thyself
I wis your grandam had a worser match.
Orleans the Bastard, Charles, Burgundy,
not been there--bless the mark!--a pissing while, but
How fares my gracious lord?
I never did thee harm: why wilt thou slay me?
That he did owe him: and I know, my lord,
Why, he drinks you, with facility, your Dane dead
Stomach not all. A more unhappy lady,
A stubborn will to please,
I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
To him that is most true. To Milford go,
What, would you bury him in my despite?
face, a reverend carriage, a slow tongue, in the
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
most nearly appertains to us both. I think our
And with his hat, thus waving it in scorn,
In the rare semblance that I loved it first.
Know you this woman?
The cardinal instantly will find employment,
As they have often given. Here is Ulysses,
When Julius Caesar, whose remembrance yet
Enter BERTRAM
Beteem them from the tempest of my eyes.
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure,
with love than I will get again with drinking, pick
I never spake with her in all my life.
out of hope.
Is valiant, and dejected, and, by starts,
Hath not thy rose a thorn, Plantagenet?
She says she drinks no other drink but tears,
To do me business in the veins o' the earth
If you be ta'en, we then should see the bottom
Within Corioli gates: where he hath won,
And in her most unmitigable rage,
Are you good men and true?
For obtaining of suits?
And by whose letters I'll dispose myself.
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
Pistol!
To heal Rome's harms, and wipe away her woe!
By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
SCENE I. The wood. TITANIA lying asleep.
A chilling sweat o'er-runs my trembling joints:
Of good or bad unto the general,
Not moved by Antony.
Julia I lose and Valentine I lose:
For the fair kindness you have show'd me here,
Another way I have to man my haggard,
Exit
One sees more devils than vast hell can hold,
Accursed and unquiet wrangling days,
More than God or religious churchmen may.
They do, they do: and are apparell'd thus.
And leave us to our free election.
Poor Tom shall lead thee.
[Aside]  As much as an apple doth an oyster,
We two alone will sing like birds i' the cage:
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but VERNON and BASSET
To him that does best: God forbid else. Cardinal,
So flew'd, so sanded, and their heads are hung
As deputy unto that gracious king,
Exeunt SHALLOW, and SLENDER
behalf of the maid, for I knew the young count to be
Your highness to assign our trial day.
I will most thankful be, and thanks to men
Exeunt
Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
And I say, the pollusion holds in the exchange, for
[To IMOGEN]	Brother, stay here
'Tis better that the enemy seek us:
If you be maid or no?
Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.
Re-enter PISANIO and Ladies
Our enemy is banish'd! he is gone! Hoo! hoo!
The worthiest of them tell me name by name,
The bishop will be overborne by thee:
Enter CAIUS MARCIUS
And in it is Lysimachus the governor,
As sure I think did never man love so--
More than mine own, that am, have, and will be--
To who shall find them.
'Sblood, I'll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot
Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect
The street should see as she walk'd overhead.
answer every man directly and briefly, wisely and
Our trumpet call'd you to this gentle parle--
from thicket,
My king is tangled in affection to
In thy tail!
The other yet may rise against their force.
Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three
Have lost their quality, and that this day
Where wouldst thou send it?
I will not do't.
Peace!
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
How does your patient, doctor?
And I to be a corporal of his field,
And points at them for his.
There's nothing in this world can make me joy:
distraction that they were to be known by garment,
How now! who's there?
The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother's
Peace!
Save to the God of heaven and to my king,
For costs and charges in transporting her!
Alas, why would you heap these cares on me?
Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia,
you fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor
He might have tried Lord Lucius or Lucullus,
And now forward, for we have put thee in countenance.
I'll murder all his wardrobe, piece by piece,
What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles?
And set thy diadem upon my head,
To load a falling man.
Though I could 'scape shot-free at London, I fear
For who lived king, but I could dig his grave?
We made each other but so late ago.
Enter ANTONY and others, with CAESAR's body
That wound, beyond their feeling, to the quick.
And then I'll set upon him.
Two of the first, like coats in heraldry,
tailor's-yard, you sheath, you bowcase, you vile
thief, for the poor abuses of the time want
my offence to him is: it is something of my
If the springe hold, the cock's mine.
We count not worth the hanging, but none human,
Sir, go you in, and, madam, go with him,
Who in this dull and long-continued truce
Let me speak a little. This youth that you see here
Of this most dreadful preparation,
Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste,
For so we are inform'd, with new opinions,
Come, my lord, I'll lead you to your tent.
Is in the field, and still his power increaseth.
Did I, Bardolph?
not be allowed in Vienna.
Possess the people in Messina here
Re-enter LUCIUS
No, I'll none of it: I pray thee keep that for the
through the town to Frogmore.
To lay so dangerous and dear a trust
Exeunt Knights
One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens,
I would give it every foot to have this face,
In this so never-needed help, yet do not
him, of as good as he, so he laughed and let me go.
after my degree, but fellow. Why, every thing
My tongue shall hush again this storm of war
'Tis new to thee.
O heavens! what stuff is here
yourselves. Speak to 'em, fool.
In pain of your dislike or pain of death,
Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil
How he did shake: 'tis true, this god did shake,
That she would never put it from her finger,
With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls,
Not so, neither: but if I had wit enough to get out
It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
Whose daggers have stabb'd Caesar, I do fear it.
To trade and traffic with Macbeth
Shall, after three days' open penance done,
It is to you, good people, that I speak,
scene that I would see, which will be merely a
Of old I know them, rather with their teeth
I know thee well, though never seen before.
Of one poor scruple, nay, if the scale do turn
You do yet taste
And furious close of civil butchery
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
Sperr up the sons of Troy.
Well, well, 'tis done, 'tis past: and yet it is not,
The multitudinous tongue, let them not lick
Over your friend that loves you.
It doth forget to do the thing it should,
In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
If ever Bassianus, Caesar's son,
Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
SCENE II. The same. The DUKE's palace.
To mingle faith with him! Undone! undone!
At Ely House.
Sir, my life is yours,
not Anne Page, I shall turn your head out of my
Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee,
Of Salisbury, who can report of him,
Here SALISBURY lifteth himself up and groans
The commons will not then be satisfied.
Thy flesh and bones: howe'er thou art a fiend,
Alarums, excursions, retreat. Enter KING JOHN,  QUEEN ELINOR, ARTHUR, the BASTARD, HUBERT, and Lords
'Gan in your duller Britain operate
none to guard it but boys.
You lack the season of all natures, sleep.
In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
And yet we hear not of our son-in-law.
lady: shall I vent to her that thou art coming?
Exeunt
Mortality and mercy in Vienna
How earnestly he cast his eyes upon me!
So please your majesty
One raised in blood, and one in blood establish'd,
wherefore: so that, if they love they know not why,
good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your
According to the gift which bounteous nature
Signior Baptista, for this fiend of hell,
How often said, my dignity would last
combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was fought in
For want of means, poor rats, had hang'd themselves:
High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service,
one, I hope I shall not be flayed out of it.
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
I never yet was valiant: for this business,
Will you be ruled by me?
The king shall do it: must he be deposed?
I have some private schooling for you both.
Enter DIONYZA and LEONINE
Is of a king become a banish'd man,
On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd.
Enter ROSS
Be Mercury, set feathers to thy heels,
On what occasion, God he knows, not I,
The noble Imogen to repent, and struck
Patroclus, I'll speak with nobody.
To yield thee so much profit. Let not conscience,
Tell not me, when the butt is out, we will drink
You may, then, spare that time.
Thou art a fool: she robs thee of thy name,
When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt,
When they go from Achilles: shall the proud lord
And Charles, upon condition thou wilt swear
I humbly thank you:
Thy father slew my father, therefore, die.
King Lewis his satisfaction, all appear
Well, that's set down.
[To the BASTARD]  Cousin, away for England!
When others are more wicked: not being the worst
Then, madam,
Come, you and I will thither presently,
Why, how now? ho, awake! Why are you drawn?
Welcome, Sir John! But why come you in arms?
Till she had laid it and conjured it down,
Be thus upbraided, chid and rated at,
thankful should be,
Spirits to enforce, art to enchant,
broke any man's head but his own, and that was
And Earl of Richmond, and this rich fair town
O unhappy youth!
Or any one of you, chop off your hand,
That you express content, which we will pay,
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
Besides, if things go well,
We now present. Those that can pity, here
My lord?
Here, wear this jewel for me, 'tis my picture,
travel, that hath seen the world, but let that pass.
Solemn music
I like him very well.
Exeunt
Portia, adieu. I have too grieved a heart
the world, and to live in a nook merely monastic.
But in these nice sharp quillets of the law,
Madam, do you, 'tis fittest.
This was the most unkindest cut of all,
O barbarous, beastly villains, like thyself!
Exit
You were disguised.
With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd!
Bitter to me as death: your life, good master,
Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed,
Enter TIMON, ALCIBIADES, and Lords,  and c
Fortune and I are friends: I do enjoy
Be opposite all planets of good luck
I, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated
[Within]  My lord , my lord! what, ho! my lord, my lord!
Better far off than near, be ne'er the near.
Upon the north side of this pleasant chase,
And what may make him blush in being known,
in the oppression of aged tyranny, who sways, not
Was not far off: then was I as a tree
I know. Thus far can I praise him, he is of a noble
pickle-herring! How now, sot!
And say 'Long live our Emperor Saturnine!'
Lest, to thy peril, thou aby it dear.
forehead, or hang my bugle in an invisible baldrick,
Holy King Henry, and thy fair son Edward,
You will return and sojourn with my sister,
Call not me slanderer, thou and thine usurp
Something browner than Judas's marry, his kisses are
Thy niece and I, poor creatures, want our hands,
No, here it is.
The day serves well for them now. I have heard it
Be answer'd in his challenge: Ajax is ready.
And bear it to the chapel.
thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.
Come on assay. There's one gone to the harbour?
as your French crown for your taffeta punk, as Tib's
Endure a further view.
Prithee, peace.
To hear Cominius speak?
You shall by that perceive him and his means:
And you must needs bestow her funeral,
Male varlet, you rogue! what's that?
courtly and thou art too cunning. At whose request
And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet.
Do you know them?
learnedly handle, though they come to him by the
Agrippa further speak.
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
For such a guest is meet.
Entirely to her love, but if she lost it
Statist though I am none, nor like to be,
Wilt thou not stoop? Now cursed be the time
Marry, if you would put me to verses or to dance for
Misguide thy opposers' swords! Bold gentleman,
As doth a battle, when they charge on heaps
Staying the odds by adding four.
These lies are like their father that begets them,
I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.
It shall be so, he shall to Brittany.
That I might be the organ.
I will, sir.
Let me speak:
What, now?
O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
The fortune of the day quite turn'd from him,
How parted with your brothers? how first met them?
You see what mischief and what murder too
ladies most desirous of admittance.
Hover about me with your airy wings
If I but knew him, with my love and duty
It is too full o' the milk of human kindness
because I have no power to be kind: and tell him
Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together
No danger in what show of death it makes,
Do your will.
And choice, being mutual act of all our souls,
In measureless content.
man knows where to have me, thou knave, thou!
It cannot be, it is impossible:
He will have all, I think.
And I will seek for Pindarus the while.
ANTIPHOLUS
As they smelt music: so I charm'd their ears
Nay, my choler is ended.
Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself.
offenceless dog to affright an imperious lion: sue
thankful for it.
Which read and not expounded, 'tis decreed,
Exceed account, but the full sum of me
My daughter might have been: my queen's square brows,
I'll tell you what you shall do. Our general's wife
Larding the plain, and by his bloody side,
from his judge, but most willingly humbles himself
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
I'll know his humour, when he knows his time:
As Phaethon would whip you to the west,
wild-fowl than your lion living, and we ought to
The prince of darkness is a gentleman:
As never did the clergy at one time
of no having: he kept company with the wild prince
Your power and your command is taken off,
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
Gentle madam, no.
Recall not what we give, and therein may
[To HELENA]  The best wishes that can be forged in
himself is in love with Mistress Anne Page: but
And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs,
distract it with many, either to have it sterile
O then, belike, you fancy riches more:
And if you prove it, I'll repay it back
Here on my knee, before high heaven and you,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Give't not o'er so: to him
And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
Thou hast painfully discover'd: are his files
reason, we must stay the time.
Good Master Froth, look upon his honour, 'tis for a
Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee,
a face as yours were.
Though age from folly could not give me freedom,
Nay, do not pause, for I did kill King Henry,
insert again my haud credo for a deer.
That make ambition virtue! O, farewell!
Why, yet there want not many that do fear
Here to make good the boisterous late appeal,
What noise is this? Not dead? not yet quite dead?
Exit Servant
sleep in thy sheath, I beseech God on my knees thou
For yet is hope of life and victory.
To incur a private cheque. When shall he come?
Be well avenged, or till another Caesar
Then none have I offended. I have done no more to
Most dearly welcome to the Greeks, sweet lady.
My lords, you speak your pleasures:
They fight, and certain Volsces come to the aid of  AUFIDIUS. MARCIUS fights till they be driven in breathless
Indeed, they are disproportion'd,
Let's to the Capitol. Would half my wealth
And then deny her aiding hand therein,
So that, in these ten thousand they have lost,
O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
BIRON tears the letter
Adieu, adieu, adieu.
Thus do I hope to shake King Henry's head.
Then how or which way should they first break in?
Philip of France, in right and true behalf
Rialto, a beggar, that was used to come so smug upon
A dearer merit, not so deep a maim
Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
But that which gives my soul the greatest spurn,
At sea, I think.
son, my son! Tell me, thou villain, where is my son Lucentio?
He hath studied her will, and translated her will,
me. If then thou be son to me, here lies the point,
And 'tis my hope to end successfully.
A message well sympathized, a horse to be ambassador
finger and his thumb, as one would set up a top.
sold among those of any wit, like a barbarian slave.
I tell you, 'twill sound harshly in her ears.
How long is this ago?
Ay, come:--O Jove!--do come:--I shall be plagued.
I am of your fear for that.
God be wi' you: let's meet as little as we can.
Peace, ho! no outrage: peace!
also life is a shuttle. I am in haste, go along
bears that office, to signify their pleasures.
My brother did love Juliet,
And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
I am impatient of my tarriance.
queen's picture. Come, follow us: we'll be thy
Is stol'n away to Rome, hath ta'en no leave,
By what we can, which can no more but fly.
And she an eater of her mother's flesh,
wealth of Windsor Castle.
Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool,
Where hath it slept? Where is my mother's care,
Hie thee again:
Why, what a caterwauling dost thou keep!
Nor yet the other's distance comfort me.
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
Betwixt two charming words, comes in my father
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
I here proclaim myself thy mortal foe,
O faithless coward! O dishonest wretch!
Gentle Lucetta, fit me with such weeds
I think you are happy in this second match,
Why dost thou spit at me?
I learned it in England, where, indeed, they are
Where now remains a sweet reversion:
Rather than have false Proteus rescue me.
How pitiful I deserve,--
I think so, Charmian: dull of tongue, and dwarfish!
I am ashamed: does not the stone rebuke me
their queen.
Upon the British party: O, untimely death!
What think you? may we, with the warrant of
And gave this sentence then,
And 'stablish quietness on every side.
I am a maid,
wagging of your beards, and your beards deserve not
Were not you here but even now disguised?
I saw thee late at the Count Orsino's.
Loaden with honour. Say my request's unjust,
That turn'd your wit the seamy side without,
With over-weather'd ribs and ragged sails,
Inter their bodies as becomes their births:
turkey-cocks. God pless you, Aunchient Pistol! you
For what had he to do to chide at me?
To call upon him.
This is the day of doom for Bassianus:
As it makes harmful all that speak of it.
A balance more replete.
entering, that if any crave redress of injustice,
For common justice, you're as pregnant in
By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.
I' the plain way of his merit.
Peace! the charm's wound up.
He is a traitor, let him to the Tower,
He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.
Primo, secundo, tertio, is a good play, and the old
Say, what art thou that talk'st of kings and queens?
but, I pray you, tell me, is my boy, God rest his
Neither disturbed with the effect of wine,
Upon his party for the gain thereof:
Beg of her for remedy.
You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself:
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Let me alone. Dost thou use to write thy name? or
Give me assurance with some friendly vow,
What is the business?
habit, but your words show you a madman. Why, sir,
And that supposed by the common rout
Exit with CRESSIDA
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
Cassandra, call my father to persuade.
A father cruel, and a step-dame false,
Exeunt IAGO and Attendants
And in thy face strange motions have appear'd,
Intelligent of our state, what hath been seen,
Where are you there? Sir John! nay, fear not, man,
Before him through the city: he forbids it,
And to the Roman empire, promising
I further know not.
Deliver what you will, I'll say 'tis so.
It is a bitter deputy.
The special head of all the land together:
He holds your temper in a high respect
And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
And dizzy 'tis, to cast one's eyes so low!
Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss,
Thou hast spoke too much already: get thee gone.
'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired,
Tell me, was he arrested on a band?
At whose expense 'tis done.
for he cares not what he puts into the press, when
Strike the drum.
And his enforcement of the city wives,
My daughter he hath wedded: I will die,
Unto Southampton do we shift our scene.
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
If it be true that I interpret false,
O'er whom I give thee power, here to this place:
Kent banish'd thus! and France in choler parted!
It is determined, not concluded yet:
I cannot fight upon this argument,
No harm.
Farewell, be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains:
No, my profound heart: and yet, by the very fangs
It may be so, for it is not mine own.
Governs Lord Angelo, a man whose blood
Moist it again, and frame some feeling line
Never, my lord.
Saint George and victory! fight, soldiers, fight.
Much deserved on his part and equally remembered by
Your honour is most welcome.
Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
withdrawn her father to break with him about it.
How fares my lord? speak, Beaufort, to
Juno have mercy! how came it cloven?
Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.
That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her
The hope thereof makes Clifford mourn in steel.
He would not stay at your petitions: made
But if your title to the crown be weak,
Never tell him, my lord: let her wear it out with
And brought to yoke, the enemies of Rome.
Dispatch it presently, the hour draws on
And this.
This night methinks is but the daylight sick,
Urge it no more, lest that, instead of words,
Thy thoughts I cleave to. What's thy pleasure?
Is but a preface of her worthy praise,
it.
Had you been as wise as bold,
There's two or three of us have seen strange sights.
A common slave--you know him well by sight--
will draw a bill of properties, such as our play
SONG.
As dogs upon their masters, worrying you.
Re-enter Players with recorders
When thou wert king, who, travelling towards York,
When one so great begins to rage, he's hunted
That I do beg his life, if it be sin,
Herein you war against your reputation
Disfigure not his slop.
For I am sick when I do look on thee.
My lord and husband!
Of Lewis the Dauphin and that lovely maid:
inviting, which many my near occasions did urge me
I know your virtue hath a licence in't,
Ay, ay, my liege,
Ta'en off by poison.
Unto the judge that begg'd it and indeed
In praises sauced with lies.
Enter SOMERSET
That can thy light relume. When I have pluck'd the rose,
Music, and a song
Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love.
Welcome, my gracious lord, welcome, dread queen,
And to sun's parching heat display'd my cheeks,
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours,
To put him quite beside his patience.
After that things are set in order here,
Her shoulder is with child.
And free from other misbegotten hate,
And copy of the father, eye, nose, lip,
Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
Was there ever man had such luck! when I kissed the
A fellow by the hand of nature mark'd,
Good sir, say whether you'll answer me or no:
My medicine, work! Thus credulous fools are caught,
The cordial of mine age to glad my heart!
By Dromio?
As Cleopatra this. But, sir, forgive me,
And doubling that, most holy. Your means abroad,
Contrived by art and baleful sorcery.
To DIANA
I thank his grace, I know he loves me well,
Of her that threw it: noble she was, and thought
Enter, from one side, AARON, DEMETRIUS, and  CHIRON, from the other side, Young LUCIUS, and an  Attendant, with a bundle of weapons, and verses writ upon them
clean kept: for why, she sweats, a man may go over
Worthy the pressing--lies a mole, right proud
Look you, the worm is not to be trusted but in the
Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.
His tears run down his beard, like winter's drops
My thoughts were like unbridled children, grown
Restored me to my honours, and, out of ruins,
Why with some little train, my Lord of Buckingham?
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
Why, love forswore me in my  mother's womb:
By Priam and the general state of Troy:
His mother was a witch, and one so strong
The shepherd seeks the sheep, and not the sheep the
To CLEOPATRA
I must needs wake her. Madam, madam, madam!
Thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee.
No, 'tis impossible he should escape,
Is niece to England: look upon the years
Thou, trumpet, there's my purse.
slaughter-house: therefore thus will I reward thee,
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is!
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live,
And binds the wretch, and beats it when it strays,
And gentlemen of Italy, most willing spirits,
Enter PROTEUS
Exeunt KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and SUFFOLK
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave
Murdering impossibility, to make
You do advance your cunning more and more.
A fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife,
Renowned Titus, more than half my soul,--
Ascend his throne, descending now from him,
sweet sorrow,
Thou art a lord, and nothing but a lord:
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
She never had so sweet a changeling,
Doing the honour of thy lordliness
Even now a tailor call'd me in his shop
Protects not us: then why should we be tender
That find such cruel battle here within?
Why did you suffer Iachimo,
Nothing, my lord: or if--I know not what.
Whereof I shall not have intelligence.
house, and what they made there, I know not. Well,
To ORLANDO
matter merrily set down, or a very pleasant thing
God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!
Which industry and courage might have saved?
I would the fool were married to her grave!
And none but women left to wail the dead.
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
You are in the state of grace.
Lord cardinal, the king's further pleasure is,
I will do't, my lord.
mistook in you!
To chide him from our eaves, for he persists
shall have no strength to repent. An I have not
If ye be any thing but churchmen's habits--
And haste is needful in this desperate case.
Exit
Now will it best avail your majesty
To such as love not sorrow, but another,
The hue of dungeons and the suit of night,
And from Pope Innocent the legate here,
That time, acquaintance, custom and condition
This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
All to you. Lights, more lights!
That he spake to thee?
Your company to the Capitol, where, I know,
If your more ponderous and settled project
And maidens bleach their summer smocks
A! that's a foul fault.
I had other things to have spoken with her too from
Set fire on barns and hay-stacks in the night,
hazard thy life for thy dinner: wert thou the
So merry and so gamesome: he is call'd
Is it my fault that I was Geffrey's son?
Who's there, I trow! Come near the house, I pray you.
Parted our fellowship--But, hark! a sail.
Boatswain!
As my soul prompts it. Spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee
'This is put forth too truly:' besides, I have stay'd
Does change my disposition.
indeed! I ne'er made my will yet, I thank heaven, I
In what manner?
constable. How long have you been in this place of constable?
at him. I know my lady will strike him: if she do,
Exit
Mine ear is open and my heart prepared,
Come, let's have her aboard suddenly.
And tell me how you would bestow yourself.
Will serve the turn.
O, my good lord, yonder's foul murders done!
Turn me away, and let the foul'st contempt
Aside, aside, here comes Lord Timon.
At pleasure here we lie near Orleans,
As soldiers can. Be cheerful, wipe thine eyes
Thou mayst tell that knowest.
If I owe you any thing, I will pay you in cudgels:
As feel in his own fall, for men, like butterflies,
In Ephesus I am but two hours old,
He is Cupid's grandfather and learns news of him.
with him, I'll make him dance. Will you go, gentles?
Which is his only.
Even for his sake am I pitiless.
Rivers. that died at Pomfret! despair, and die!
Give me thy hand, 'tis late: farewell, good night.
Helen, I mean.
You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams,
Reverend sir,
Look, here comes a pilgrim: I know she will lie at
That left the camp to sin in Lucrece' bed?
She knew her distance and did angle for me,
Marry, you are the wiser man, for many a man's
Nature dispenses with the deed so far
Eyes, do you see?
Let die the spotted.
'Tis nothing less: conceit is still derived
For, good King Henry, thy decay I fear.
Where's Fulvia's process? Caesar's I would say? both?
Re-enter CATESBY
The wall is high, and yet will I leap down:
Deliver'd, by the holy gods,
Isabel,
To grace occasions, let it be our suit
gave me nothing for't. Can you make no use of
What, Lucius, ho!
Before the dew of evening fall, shall fleet,
his rapier.
SCENE II. The forest.
Gives us free scope, only doth backward pull
Over your threshold: moneys is your suit
hear me speak but this.
Choler does kill me that thou art alive,
Mine honour's ensigns humbled at thy feet.
Into my cousin's hand, Doctor Bellario,
You shall command me, sir.
I will endure, and I'll employ thee too:
I thank you, madam. Give welcome to my friend.
of wives: alas, fifteen wives is nothing! eleven
I cannot give due action to my words,
I would know that.
His majesty
Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Vherefore vill you not meet-a me?
Now, mistress, profit you in what you read?
can be in love. Yet Benedick was such another, and
No, I'll not meddle.
That hold their honours in a wary distance,
By your own counsel is suppress'd and kill'd:
if a man will be beaten with brains, a' shall wear
When he has run his course and sleeps in blessings,
With opportunity of sharp revenge
Than praised for harmful mildness.
Please you, read,
How he received you, let me be resolved.
He comes too short of that great property
And that you not delay the present, but,
What an eye she has! methinks it sounds a parley of
Master Brook, I will be thrown into Etna, as I have
My lord, his throat is cut, that I did for him.
And make a conquest of unhappy me,
The rate of usance here with us in Venice.
I'ld give it to undo the deed. O lady,
o'clock, early at Gadshill! there are pilgrims going
Must pity drop upon her. Verily,
How now! what hath befall'n?
Gallants, lads, boys, hearts of gold, all the titles
Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries,
fairs and market-towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
Takes note of what is done, and, like a prophet,
Where was his son when they did take his eyes?
What, John Rugby! John! what, John, I say!
As jewels lose their glory if neglected,
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible, playing and singing, FERDINAND following
Who when they were in health, I tell thee, herald,
Go, away with her to prison!
Shall it for shame be spoken in these days,
If he be none of mine, my sanctity
And this shall free thee from this present shame,
And gallop o'er the field.
I love thee not a jar o' the clock behind
This true which they so seem to fear. Go home,
Then let her alone.
For thou hast shown some sign of good desert--
But I will use the axe.
Whose absence is no less material to me
But none can cure their harms by wailing them.
Decrease not, but grow faster than the years:
Could not find death where I did hear him groan,
Under the canopy!
As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it.
More pangs and fears than wars or women have:
What thou deny'st to men, let prisons swallow 'em,
Consider then we come but in despite.
Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy
Save you, gentleman.
Good Margaret, run thee to the parlor,
brother, was a villain.
Where we may apprehend her and the Moor?
her, do, I will gyve thee in thine own courtship.
What dares not Warwick, if false Suffolk dare him?
With what encounter so uncurrent I
Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase, and taunt my faults
Do, good William.
filth as thou art. Thou hast most traitorously
His cuisses on his thighs, gallantly arm'd
He'll wrest the sense and hold us here all day:
Are master of the feast: Cadwal and I
As much as we this night have overwatch'd.
I'll go with thee:
Do grow beneath their shoulders. This to hear
shoulders, no sighs but of my breathing, no tears
One of these days, and then you'ld wanton with us,
years. You have seen cruel proof of this man's
A noise within
their will,
Attend me, lords. The proud insulting queen,
The princes orgulous, their high blood chafed,
Cough, or cry 'hem,' if any body come:
Why, 'twas a commandment to command the captain and
Though it do split you, for, from this day forth,
Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous
Did to thy father, steep'd in Rutland's blood,--
In women's waxen hearts to set their forms!
I should have lost the worth of it in gold.
and scoured.
voluntary: no man is beaten voluntary: Ajax was
Hid in an auger-hole, may rush, and seize us?
Than I and such a knave.
Of more strong link asunder than can ever
They quite forget their loss of liberty.
Great Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hill
cannot hale them together. For Andrew, if he were
If you would know your wronger, look on me.
stick it in thy cap: when Alencon and myself were
Sir, I do depend upon the lord.
Do, good my friend.
Blessed be your royal grace!
I'll be with you anon.
at home for you.
And shows good husbandry for the Volscian state,
I am in heaven for him, or ere I could
Welcome, signior: you are almost come to part
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
Who shall I command, sir?
I'll over then to England with this news,
I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewd
In faith, they are as true of heart as we.
ACT II
But find supply immediate. Get you gone:
I also wish it to you. I think this honourable lord
Fie, fie, my brother!
To strengthen and support King Edward's place.
Pardonnez-moi, I cannot tell vat is 'like me.'
soul dares not present itself: she is too bright to
The which if he can prove, a' pops me out
do, but in the way of honesty: how she died of the
Of what kind should this cock come of?
Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
Enter CAPULET, with JULIET and others of his house, meeting the Guests and Maskers
Finding his usurpation most unjust,
Did nothing.
What's he that now is going out of door?
For York in justice puts his armour on.
look you, be an ass and a fool and a prating
Do you hear, my mad wenches?
ere morning.
Marry, were they.
Thus violently redress.
are born to do benefits: and what better or
I'll take it from thee, and, good boy, good night.
Make that good.
For one to thrust his hand between his teeth,
Did you beg any? God forbid!
O' th' other's villany?
I have more charity: but say, I warn'd ye,
Re-enter Provost
you.
Who, I rob? I a thief? not I, by my faith.
From thence unto the place of execution:
And on a love-book pray for my success?
That floated with thee on the fatal raft?
And then to horse immediately.
Being not deficient, blind, or lame of sense,
Fit for her turn, well read in poetry
For you, great king,
It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
No: know the gallant monarch is in arms
wedding-day at night.
You'll find it wholesome. Lo, where comes that rock
That they did give the rings away to men,
Look, sir, I bleed.
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
Sick in the world's regard, wretched and low,
and there was he borne, under a hedge, for his
But that I know them: do they charge me further?
And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear
Into my husband's hands. This trusty servant
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
When he by night lay bathed in maiden blood.
O slow-wing'd turtle! shall a buzzard take thee?
I would I were at home.
This is the end of the charge:--you, constable, are
Well, the matter?
Your eld'st acquaintance cannot be three hours:
her without her tongue. O, that woman that cannot
Present the fair steed to my lady Cressid:
By his loved mansionry, that the heaven's breath
I make you both protectors of this land,
an honest man should have, he has nothing.
The true blank of thine eye.
that's the end.
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
The sciences that should become our country,
They do confound their skill in covetousness,
Shall make their harbour in our town, till we
resemble you in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian,
If these shows be not outward, which of you
Is not their climate foggy, raw and dull,
When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he fought
A' should not bear it so, a' should eat swords first:
With bitter fasts, with penitential groans,
Yet Caesar shall go forth, for these predictions
black, this plaintiff here, the offender, did call
My amen to't!
And, though unskilful, why not Ned and I
For since the substance of your perfect self
From east to occident, cry out for service,
According to the statute of the town,
We kept together in our chivalry!'
Mail'd up in shame, with papers on my back,
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS
It would not out at windows nor at doors.
Not making any scruple of her soilure,
Thou wast installed in that high degree.
That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey's death.
To bear that load of title?
Where, after I have solemnly interr'd
sojourner we have, you'll lose nothing by custom.
She I kill'd! I did so: but thou strikest me
Good traders in the flesh, set this in your
When men revolted shall upon record
Must I receive, whose every word deserves
How now, spirit! whither wander you?
Last longer telling than thy kindness' date.
And that we are most lofty runaways.
Yet should both ear and heart obey my tongue.
tempts me saying to me 'Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, good
Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,
Doth this man serve God?
Your hand, Leonato, we will go together.
The fruit she goes with
And make me die the thrall of Margaret's curse,
Let him demand his fill.
As sun to day, as turtle to her mate,
Scant not my cups, and make as much of me
my neighbours shall cry aim.
His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.
Hail to your lordship!
To most that teach.
Sebastian is thy name? I like thee well
And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
Or brought a faggot to bright-burning Troy?
Govern'd a wolf, who, hang'd for human slaughter,
thus dearly.
He's a good fellow, I can tell you that,
When they do hug him in their melting bosoms.
To consolate thine ear. Come, night, end, day!
Go to Flint castle: there I'll pine away,
Have with my knife carved in Roman letters,
For know, my lords, the states of Christendom,
And we shall shock them. Nought shall make us rue,
I will give thee for it a thousand pound: ask me
and, truly, I hold it a sin to match in my kindred.
'Tis most strange,
May be a coward's, whose ministers would prevail
And chid his truant youth with such a grace
The king's eyes, that so long have slept upon
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
for, I assure thee, and almost with tears I speak
Show me this piece. I am joyful of your sights.
Now will I dam up this thy yawning mouth
Her chambers are all lock'd, and there's no answer
should be put into the lanthorn. How is it else the
Get thee to bed, and rest, for thou hast need.
But, if we live, we'll be as sharp with you.
Whereby hangs a tale, sir?
I marvel I hear not of Master Brook, he sent me word
Unless abroad they purchase great alliance?
Who's there? my good lord cardinal? O my Wolsey,
that pass: for I must tell thee, it will please his
Madam, depart at pleasure, leave us here.
With all your just proceedings in this cause.
There are a kind of men so loose of soul,
Now, God delay our rebellion! as we are ourselves,
And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
That owes two buckets, filling one another,
That thou commend it strangely to some place
Then give me leave to go.
Sirrah, do I owe you a thousand pound?
And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets.
Shall this our lofty scene be acted over
And from the cross-row plucks the letter G.
Sayest thou so, old Jack? go thy ways, I'll make
I will say of it,
And that's true too.
Here GLOUCESTER's men beat out BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER's men, and enter in the hurly- burly the Mayor of London and his Officers
Enter GOWER, before the monument of MARINA at Tarsus
By prosperous voyages I often made
As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
say him nay.
But brats and beggary, in self-figured knot,
You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
And not a serpent's poison. Say, our pleasure,
With clouts about their heads.
Singing
Happy is your grace,
they drink,
A little witness my obedience: look!
Point to rich ends. This my mean task
We shall appear before him. On there, pass along!
Here never shines the sun, here nothing breeds,
pies, mace, dates?--none, that's out of my note,
Arm'd, my lord.
Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other.
Let there be the same net spread for her, and that
As twenty seas, if all their sand were pearl,
Whose humble means match not his haughty mind:
Enter Chorus
Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner.
It is but foolery, but it is such a kind of
He has broke my head across and has given Sir Toby
For he is fierce and cannot brook hard language.
What he cannot help in his nature, you account a
Sir, sir, be patient.
Off with his head! Now, by Saint Paul I swear,
Aside
Thou art not conquer'd, beauty's ensign yet
Guardian!--why, Greek!
Peace, fool! I have not done.
but hurt not.
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
No more but that I know the more one sickens the
Why, how now, Adam! no greater heart in thee? Live
Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did
And now 'tis far too huge to be blown out
To rob me of so rich a bottom here.
Such as it is, being tender, raw and young:
The undoing of yourself: let the world see
It will be for his gentle daughter's sake:
what marriage is: this fellow will but join you
Monster, your fairy, which you say is
I know not if the day be ours or no,
Enter TRANIO, and the Pedant dressed like VINCENTIO
They are fairies, he that speaks to them shall die:
nothing neither.
From my lord Biron, a good master of mine,
I know him not.
Unless I flatter with myself too much.
Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
Remove these thoughts from you: the which before
Whose beard they have singed off with brands of fire,
Will these turtles be gone?
Who with a body fill'd and vacant mind
Which, unreversed, stands in effectual force--
You'll find it otherwise, I assure you: therefore,
Would say your head and butt were head and horn.
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Hath homely age the alluring beauty took
hast me, if thou hast me, at the worst, and thou
Look not pale, Bianca, thy father will not frown.
And let it keep one shape, till custom make it
Your worship's wife, my mistress at the Phoenix,
Command, I mean, friend.
Of differences, which I least thought it fit
He does indeed,
You lie, in faith, for you are call'd plain Kate,
Thou let'st thy fortune sleep--die, rather, wink'st
You that choose not by the view,
Thou art not for the fashion of these times,
Are in thy vessel: let me cut the cable,
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
Mistress Ford: we will thrive, lads, we will thrive.
And prays the Moor be safe, for they were parted
Ne aught escapen but himself,
From niggard nature fall, yet rich conceit
Sound a sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN  MARGARET, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, YORK, BUCKINGHAM, SALISBURY and WARWICK to the Parliament
Of thy success in love, and what news else
This proffer is absurd and reasonless.
You go so much backward when you fight.
park, and I will teach a scurvy jack-a-nape priest
This is a soldier's kiss: rebukeable
I cry you mercy, then:
go
their wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the
How if the kiss be denied?
And though she be but little, she is fierce.
March. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, PRINCE EDWARD, SOMERSET, OXFORD, and soldiers
that is certain, and of great expedition and
And stain my favours in a bloody mask,
Subtle as Sphinx, as sweet and musical
Send him to answer thee, or any man,
I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat,
Go with me. Once more, new servant, welcome:
'Tis not needed yet.
Shall I do such a deed?
Knock at my door, and tell me what he says.
Good brother, as thou lovest and honourest arms,
Is the king's ship, in the deep nook, where once
Nay then, I will not: you shall have the mustard,
Ay, and for that thou diest.
Pour'st in the open ulcer of my heart
I am content.
And the complexion of the element
Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby!
Count wisdom as no member of the war,
I charged thee that she should not come about me:
O'ertake me, if thou canst, I scorn thy strength.
To make her speak as move.
Exit EDGAR
Have I affected wealth or honour? speak.
for it. He surely affected her for her wit.
My sovereign, with the loving citizens,
Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty.
Why dost thou laugh? it fits not with this hour.
He speaks to me. I am your master, Dromio:
No, but she is an earthly paragon.
That have their first conception by mis-dread,
What is become of Marcius?
The clock upbraids me with the waste of time.
In honour of whose birth these triumphs are,
Be of good cheer,
Shall I speak for thee? shall I say 'tis so?
Though in your state of honour I am perfect.
To try if that our own be ours or no.
he take leave, and presently after him.
me, like a double-meaning prophesier.
This is a strange repose, to be asleep
What, you egg!
cannot abide. How answer you that?
Dost hate a medlar?
As Pompey was, am I compell'd to set
[Aside]  The Prince of Cumberland! that is a step
SCENE III. Another part of Blackheath.
To assume a pleasing shape, yea, and perhaps
That being pass'd for consul with full voice,
But what's the matter?
Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth!
CYMBELINE and IMOGEN come forward
Pay with falsehood false exacting,
If by this crime he owes the law his life,
What is your will, sir, that you send for me?
A lover, that kills himself most gallant for love.
and I paid nothing for it neither, but was paid for
He's that he is: I may not breathe my censure
The common stroke of war.
To make the base earth proud with kissing it:
As is the morn-dew on the myrtle-leaf
Go you, call hither my fool.
The rather, if you could devise it so
Hush! here comes Antony.
And if it stand, as you yourself still do,
Caesar, I shall.
That faith would live again by death of need.
You are but newly planted in your throne,
He purposeth to Athens: whither, with what haste
You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, JAQUES, ORLANDO, OLIVER, and CELIA
For Warwick is a subtle orator,
In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee,
Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir, but yet,
And if King Edward be as true and just
Come good fellow, put mine iron on:
Happily he's the second time come to them, for they
Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland.
A present murderer does prepare
Fatal this marriage, cancelling your fame,
Either be patient, and entreat me fair,
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
I cannot reach so high.
I am not merry, but I do beguile
As to peace-parted souls.
rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound,
there would be none left to rail upon thee, and then
Small joy have I in being England's queen.
What? I say,
The rather will I spare my praises towards him:
How many goodly creatures are there here!
Fear me not.
And out of my dear love I'll give thee more
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
cousin to a good husband.
With the earl, sir, here within.
Resign it then and leave thine insolence.
Gramercies, lad, go forward, this contents:
[Within]  Who knocks at the door?
Give way to what's seen now! Sir, you yourself
Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
Approach, rich Ceres, her to entertain.
[To PAGE]  Will you go with us to behold it? My
For truth's sake and his conscience, that his bones,
That all our swains commend her?
We must have bloody noses and crack'd crowns,
Gentle kinsman, go,
Exeunt
Exeunt Attendants
On business to my brother Cassius.
Before you all, appeal unto the pope,
Enter TITUS below
garments were come. She said upon a time--the
And, by my troth, I think thou lovest me well.
Didst thou not hear somebody?
If Lucius live, he will requite your wrongs,
Arrest me, foolish fellow, if thou darest.
His father's acts commenced in burning Troy!
it is no matter, thyself upon thyself! The common
And my estate deserves an heir more raised
not: he there: that he: look you there.
the writing nor the tune.
The captain that did bring me first on shore
Why, Buckingham, is the traitor Cade surprised?
Thou know'st 'tis common, all that lives must die,
I find it still, when I have list to sleep:
To PISANIO
And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss,
and I rob the thieves and go merrily to London, it
Yet more quarrelling with occasion! Wilt thou show
How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds
O, that it were as like as it is true!
Winter's not gone yet, if the wild-geese fly that way.
From whom he bringeth sensible regreets,
Marry, sir, so painted, to make her fair, that no
Will never more break faith advisedly.
We have.
SCENE I. A house in Rome.
And that's but unwholesome food they say.
Fear not, my lord, I'll play the orator
'Tis false.
You do not meet a man but frowns: our bloods
Such unconstant starts are we like to have from
I marvel why her grace did leave it out.
Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
desire you to eat it.
Dies in the zeal of that which it presents:
What manner of man, an it like your majesty?
Go take her hence, and marry her instantly.
I would, not so!--and would no more endure
Good sir, adieu.
How canst thou urge God's dreadful law to us,
I cannot do it, yet I know no cause
ANTIPHOLUS
Behold her that gave aim to all thy oaths,
Oft have I seen a timely-parted ghost,
With this there grows
Upon your stubborn usage of the pope,
For 'tis thy rival. O thou senseless form,
And signify this loving interview
And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze:
Beldam, I think we watch'd you at an inch.
Being none of his, refuse him: this concludes,
Had part in this fair maid, now heaven hath all,
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
Fair sir, God save you! Where's the princess?
And she again wants nothing, to name want,
Jove's accord,
Take to you no hard thoughts:
Sir, royal sir, forgive a foolish woman:
Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
I pray you, sir, my ring, or else the chain:
Of Corinth that, of Epidaurus this:
Nay, be brief
Where I may think the remnant of my thoughts
Did, as heir general, being descended
Should be call'd tyrants, butchers, murderers!
Foretells a tempest and a blustering day.
Shall we their fond pageant see?
[Aside]                 Or this, or perish.
Knocking within
And make him, naked, foil a man at arms.
Hence, pack! there's gold, you came for gold, ye slaves:
His oath enrolled in the parliament,
death: do not satisfy your resolution with hopes
Dost thou not laugh?
Exit a Servingman
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
To Athens will I bear my folly back
That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow?
Who should I swear by? thou believest no god:
Were it not that my fellow-school-master
I pray you, give me leave.
Is not to-morrow, boy, the ides of March?
In his descent than shall my prompted sword
Hark how I'll bribe you: good my lord, turn back.
penning of it.
Enter the PRINCESS of France, ROSALINE, MARIA, KATHARINE, BOYET, Lords, and other Attendants
That is an old device, and it was play'd
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
study three years in two words, the dancing horse
Happier is he that has no friend to feed
Descend.
What ill request did Brutus make to thee?
Run not before mine honour, nor my lusts
Exit DENNIS
have now found thee, when I lose thee again, I care
Which be the malefactors?
What's her price, Boult?
Why 'Heart's ease?'
To please the palate of my appetite,
Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
Done. The wager?
I have borne this business.
It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.
We with our travels will endeavour us.
'Tis true: there's magic in the web of it:
Not bolds the king, with others, whom, I fear,
Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound
Dame Eleanor gives gold to bring the witch:
The noble ruin of her magic, Antony,
Behold, I pray you!
Andronicus, stain not thy tomb with blood:
New horrors come upon him,
From good descending?
O most lame and impotent conclusion! Do not learn
sir John!' quoth I	'what, man! be o' good
must incline to the king. I will seek him, and
That here by mountaineers lies slain. Alas!
That Phaethon should cheque thy fiery steeds,
Pack'd cards with Caesar, and false-play'd my glory
Some officers take them away: good guard,
Why, we shall make him mad indeed.
Why then you must. Will you put out mine eyes?
Partake to every one. I, an old turtle,
Your master will be dead ere you return,
I fear me, it will make me scandalized.
Ha!
Exit Clown
For my heart speaks they are welcome.
That we will prosecute by good advice
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood,
And oftentimes have purposed to forbid
First, madam, he is well.
Upon advantage.
Is he a lamb? his skin is surely lent him,
Had it our name, the value of one ten,
By slaves that take their humours for a warrant
'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
There Diomed doth feast with him to-night,
As the shrouds make at sea in a stiff tempest,
And find your grace in health.
That never words were music to thine ear,
These are the whole contents: and, good my lord,
was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious,
Or else was wrangling Somerset in the error?
As young as I am, I have observed these three
a coranto? My very walk should be a jig, I would not
Enter IAGO
I know it, uncle, and oppose not myself
And curb this cruel devil of his will.
Nothing so much as mincing poetry:
And have thee reverenced like a blessed saint:
That young Octavius and Mark Antony
N'avez vous pas deja oublie ce que je vous ai enseigne?
not such need to hide itself. Let's see: come,
As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and labour
To think these spirits?
Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
Are now so sure that nothing can dissolve us.
You teach me how a beggar should be answer'd.
Lie in the interpretation of the time:
Only look up clear,
Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake,
Banished Valentine.
God-a-mercy, old heart! thou speak'st cheerfully.
Whose envious gulf did swallow up his life.
Enter CRESSIDA and ALEXANDER
By this sword, he that makes the first thrust, I'll
An hundred marks! By this light, I'll ha' more.
Enter LEONATO, ANTONIO, HERO, BEATRICE, and others
Speak, gentle sister, who hath martyr'd thee?
That I will here dismiss my loving friends,
But can you affection the 'oman? Let us command to
Weigh it but with the grossness of this age,
things, all but what she has with her: this being
But he'll remember with advantages
if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made
And Pericles, in sorrow all devour'd,
And then, as we have ta'en the sacrament,
Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Follow your function, go, and batten on cold bits.
Madam, he hath not slept tonight, commanded
even then lost when it was found. But O, the noble
Belike for want of rain, which I could well
Stay, stay thy hands! thou art an Amazon
policy, I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways:
Down thy ill-uttering throat.
has the prettiest love-songs for maids, so without
Never, never. Come, away, away!
And yet my nature never in the fight
Enter LUCIUS with an army of Goths, with drum and colours
not three of my hundred and fifty left alive, and
As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown,
the windy side of care. My cousin tells him in his
I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman
O, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth,
Along with me: I'll see what hole is here,
I tell thee, yea.
Come, Warwick, take the time, kneel down, kneel down:
No, I'll be sworn, I make as good use of it as many
Alack, what heinous sin is it in me
Enter POSTHUMUS and PHILARIO
Exeunt ELBOW, POMPEY and Officers
Sir Thomas Gargrave, hast thou any life?
Nay, daughter, carry the wine in, we'll drink within.
with pistols, that none shall issue out, otherwise
Is worse in kings than beggars. My dear lord!
Which any print of goodness wilt not take,
Thou darest as well be hanged.
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
And yet would herein others' eyes were worse.
A word, good sir,
Unbuckling helms, fisting each other's throat,
That sticks on filthy deeds.
Since my becomings kill me, when they do not
Thy father's charge shall clear thee from that stain.
When nature brought him to the door of death?
Thyself a queen, for me that was a queen,
think the Frenchman became his surety and sealed
thought he would.
And fellow'st nothing: then 'tis very credent
These lords are visited, you are not free,
I fear it much, and I do fear besides,
And I for winking at your discords too
What say you?
Ho, you sir! friend! Hear you, sir! speak!
As being well content with that alone.
Themselves when they be felt.
What mar you then, sir?
Heaven knows, they were besmear'd and over-stain'd
alike and none less dear than thine and my good
widow Dido!
Albeit considerations infinite
without it.
the attempt I vow.
I'll strike, and cry 'Take all.'
knaves, his hinds, were called forth by their
As long a term as yet we have to live,
To DUMAIN
I know his noble nature--not to let
For why, the fools are mad, if left alone.
Cave here, hunt here, are outlaws, and in time
For certain drops of salt, your city Rome,
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge,
The servant of this armourer, my lords.
And you may marvel why I obscured myself,
Attend the sequel of your imposition,
But say, what to thine old news?
You must not deny me: I must go with you to Belmont.
How have you known the miseries of your father?
And as a bed I'll take them and there lie,
Standing your friendly lord.
The appetites they feed: but she makes hungry
but they think we are too dear: the leanness that
My Lord of Norfolk, as you are truly noble,
Well seen in music, to instruct Bianca,
opinion by this worn out.
When my good falcon made her flight across
And those eyes, the break of day,
Varro's
Look, sir, your mother!
Enter OTHELLO, LODOVICO, DESDEMONA, EMILIA and Attendants
So excellent in art, and still so rising,
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke,
I oft found both: I urge this childhood proof,
The past proportion of his infinite?
And when the fit was on him, I did mark
And yet, how nature erring from itself,--
Supply me with the habit and instruct me
In love, I hope: sweet fellowship in shame!
And draw her home with music.
measured swords and parted.
To kiss.
Did you not speak to it?
A market-maid to Rome, and have prevented
And then the power of Scotland and of York,
ANTIPHOLUS
your own fault and not mine: for had you been as I
Against the pope and count his friends my foes.
As you will live, resolve it you.
Wedding is great Juno's crown:
a pen, and a' babbled of green fields. 'How now,
be a kind woman in Windsor, she is one. You must
Of all these learned men she was divorced,
I laugh'd him into patience, and next morn,
Takes a sword, and runs at him behind
O murderous coxcomb! what should such a fool
Would make a volume of enticing lines,
From him the native and true challenger.
According to your ladyship's impose,
For a reply, at least if you make a care
O, 'tis foul in her.
Suitors to her and rivals in my love,
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
And treats of Tereus' treason and his rape:
If you will mark it.
O hell! what have we here?
And I to sigh for her! to watch for her!
Whispers
one puritan amongst them, and he sings psalms to
Accept this scroll, most gracious sovereign,
furnish him, nothing doubting your present
Exeunt
Now humble as the ripest mulberry
'Tis full of thy foul wrongs.
But leave their flocks, and, under your fair conduct,
A seeming mermaid steers: the silken tackle
But not for that dream I on this strange course,
May you be happy in your wish, my lord
Exit
In undetermined differences of kings.
Then nightly sings the staring owl, 	Tu-whit,
Half heart, half hand, half Hector comes to seek
Is there not a double excellency in this?
And in the power of us the tribunes, we,
banished with her father?
Good Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher: so,
Is often left unloved, we should have met you
To fetch me trifles, and return again,
you first,
And wander we to see thy honest son,
Unto the rigour of severest law.
The slave, a member of the country's peace,
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
a carpenter?'
Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
Ay, we may march in England or in France,
And cursed Dionyza hath
O, what may man within him hide,
he esteems himself happy that he hath fallen into
And still it might, and yet it may again,
If this fellow be wise, he'll never call ye Jack
Exampled by this heinous spectacle.
Is't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca
of mine, and writ to me this other day to turn him
lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to
We being strangers here, how darest thou trust
To sound more sweetly in great Caesar's ear
Be nominated for an equal pound
For, meeting her of late behind the wood,
Tell me, thou villain slave, where are my children?
Freed and enfranchised, not a party to
Look you, who comes here, a young man and an old in
What news?
My love should kindle to inflamed respect.
Will you subscribe his thought, and say he is?
That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.
I'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful
His blessed part to heaven, and slept in peace.
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
Wouldst have me weep? why, now thou hast thy will:
So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord,
Nor come we to add sorrow to your tears,
Hath their keel cut: but fortune's mood
Yet let me obtain my wish.
Don Pedro: he hath borne himself beyond the
That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest
Should chance--
I know ye well enough.
We in your motion turn and you may move us.
Say, say, who gave it thee?
To look into the blots and stains of right:
A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices
Nor play at subtle games, fair virtues all,
have often noted in thy company, but I know not his name.
And all by thee. Away! convey him hence.
This man is better than the man he slew,
Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor, and John Car,
But what shall I gain by young Arthur's fall?
are yours, so is your diamond too: if I come off,
Necessitied to help, that by this token
His highness shall speak in, I do beseech
My son George Stanley is frank'd up in hold:
Enter CORIOLANUS with Patricians
A many of our bodies shall no doubt
Upon his visage, and that all the walls
So do we.
nuncle, and I'll give thee two crowns.
Our expectation that it would be thus
And will by twos and threes at several posterns
And get her leave to part. For not alone
Twice-sod simplicity, his coctus!
As beasts and birds and fishes.
Is at this day in Germany call'd Meisen.
Give her this key, and tell her, in the desk
Not going from itself, but eye to eye opposed
Edmund had issue, Roger Earl of March,
ACT III
Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers!
Methinks I hear hither your husband's drum,
The enmity and discord which of late
And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
Shall in procession sing her endless praise.
Let the garden door be shut, and leave me to my hearing.
would do reason.
'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,
trot as well, were some of your brags dismounted.
Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved,
I wonder how our princely father 'scaped,
fairer. He that is proud eats up himself: pride is
Doth make your honour of his body's hue,
All to the senate-house: some news is come
To help me sort such needful ornaments
Have you not set mine honour at the stake
Why, then I would not fly. Ah, Montague,
It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
They're loving, well composed with gifts of nature,
You should not use me so.
professed apprehension?
Fair sir, you are well o'erta'en
Hangs on the cutting short that fraudful man.
We stand much hazard, if they bring not Timon.
interrupt the monster one word further, and,
Glad at the thing they scowl at.
And seeing thou dost, I here divorce myself
For no thought is contented. The better sort,
Let us come in, that we may bind him fast
With labour, then by-peeping in an eye
My mother had a maid call'd Barbara:
If they were his assistants, yea or no,
They call it Agincourt.
dog's-leather of.
Say 'I am none of thine.'
And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony
But, poor old man, thou prunest a rotten tree,
Then call them to our presence, face to face,
And prophesying with accents terrible
That knew the stars as I his characters,
I warrant you, madam, we wil l make that sure.
Thy followers of repentance, that their souls
What would you have me do? go to the wars, would
Can make good people. O, my lord, you're tardy:
It is a comforter.
Shallow, and another gentleman, from Frogmore, over
Salute thee for her king: till then, fair boy,
My lord?
We shall have each a hundred Englishmen.
Which make a sound, but kill'd are wonder'd at.
It struck mine ear most terribly.
In your own losses, if he stay in France.
Are not the speedy scouts return'd again,
With this, my lord, myself have nought to do.
Well be with you, gentlemen!
But your request shall make me let it pass.
Be curses to yourselves? You should have said
To be so moral when he shall endure
Upon the beauty of all parts besides,
To break into this dangerous argument,--
Why, I cannot name't but I shall offend.
And call'd Marina?
But not, as I am, royal.
O, what a time have you chose out, brave Caius,
They confess
Exeunt
Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill
one Nym, sir, that beguiled him of a chain, had the
Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
That shake us nightly: better be with the dead,
We'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat.
Though thou abhorr'dst in us our human griefs,
ladies' eyes,
him again? Answer me in one word.
But she'll not stumble.
[To NORFOLK and SUFFOLK]
Is he of God's making? What manner of man? Is his
Ay, be-gar, and de maid is love-a me: my nursh-a
that's all the riches I got in his service.
Here a dance of twelve Satyrs
I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
Thou art thence banish'd, we would muster all
[Aside]  I'll blast his harvest, if your head were laid,
perpend: civet is of a baser birth than tar, the
That chamberers have, or for I am declined
recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that
Thou know'st, was banish'd: for one thing she did
let not my letter.
I have.
If, Duke of Burgundy, you would the peace,
Greater than this.
Your guest, then, madam:
O, she that hath a heart of that fine frame
Thy lying tongue both numbers, I would say
For I must use thee.
And minister in their steads! to general filths
Forgiveness, horse! why do I rail on thee,
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
Hail, reverend sir! the gods preserve you!
dinner, but one that lies three thirds and uses a
Knocking within
Ay: the heavens hear me!
a merry hour.
Till thou give joy, until thou bid me joy,
Changed to a worser shape thou canst not be.
A falcon, towering in her pride of place,
Tell me, Andronicus, doth this motion please thee?
He had, my lord, and that it was which caused
Sir Richard Ratcliff, let me tell thee this:
Is left this vault to brag of.
Ah, that my fear were false! ah, that it were!
Disgraced me in my happy victories,
Attend your ladyship!
There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice
[To HOLOFERNES]  Monsieur, are you not lettered?
Yon knight doth sit too melancholy,
The goodness of your intercepted packets
To the greater bench: in a rebellion,
They place themselves in every corner of the stage
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
And worthless Valentine shall be forgot.
Of every virtue gives renown to men!
genitivo, hujus. Well, what is your accusative case?
Are glad and fain by flight to save themselves.
Yet nature might have made me as these are,
For had I cursed now, I had cursed myself.
To see this gracious season.
Exit
With what it loathes for that which is away.
You may not, my lord, despise her gentle suit.
Save men's opinions and my living blood,
Furnish you fairly for this interchange:
When he was predominant.
The mysteries of Hecate, and the night,
A man of Claudio's years, his beard and head
Good morrow, gentle mistress: where away?
Music, whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself
my blindness, who cannot see many a fair French city
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
And, till so much blood thither come again,
[Kneeling]  No man shed tears for noble Mutius,
When thou canst get the ring upon my finger which
As I have said you did.
This very day,
Nay, Sir Nicholas,
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
Now, by this hand, I gave it to a youth,
Let me play the fool:
Shall I call you father?
I shall, my liege.
And bear the palm for having bravely shed
O braggart vile and damned furious wight!
That, by and by, disguised they will be here.
Reason, you rogue, reason: thinkest thou I'll
Of what commands I should be subject to,
And may enjoy such quiet walks as these?
Wilt thou betray thy noble mistress thus?
There is five in the first show.
Marcus, for thy sake and thy brother's here,
From what it purposed, since, to wail friends lost
They converse apart
How hast thou lost thy breath?
What, hath thy fiery heart so parch'd thine entrails
His fellowship i' the cause against your city,
worship more of the wart the next time we have
Ye are a baggage: the Slys are no rogues, look in
What fool hath added water to the sea,
Bolingbroke!'
I have perused her well,
Misconstrue us in him and wail his death.
wit! whither wander you?
But let the famish'd flesh slide from the bone,
It shall become to serve all hopes conceived,
I do arrest thee of high treason here.
The elements be kind to thee, and make
Against the Duke of Clarence, but have been
Must be their schoolmasters. Shut up your doors:
You taking airs, with lameness!
In every mess have folly and the feeders
To the very moment that he bade me tell it,
This loathsome sequestration have I had:
She may be honest yet. Tell me but this,
I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight.
acknowledge itself hereafter, it may compel him to
But there is no such man: for, brother, men
He's discontented.
In like conditions as our argument,
Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
What dost thou then in prison?
But then are we in order when we are most
That keep her from her rest.
These words, these looks, infuse new life in me.
You speak to Casca, and to such a man
Is thy name Tyrrel?
And send to darkness all that stop me. Come,
intelligence of this whore: the parrot will not
so conclusions passed the careires.
As with a woman. Come, you'll play with me, sir?
The other moiety, ere you ask, is given,
Were I a common laugher, or did use
The goer-back. Why came you from your master?
Tend me to-night,
Stab them, or tear them on thy chariot-wheels,
Why, so I can, sir, but I will not now.
These are his substance, sinews, arms and strength,
most blessed condition.
with too much as they that starve with nothing. It
Being at Greenwich,
And therefore are we certainly resolved
The chief aim of his honour, and, to strengthen
Drive them from Orleans and be immortalized.
Alarum: excursions. Enter NORFOLK and forces fighting, to him CATESBY
walking and other actual performances, what, at any
The honour that he loses: more I'll entreat you
Are you a comedian?
It is as sure as you are Roderigo,
The prince's espials have informed me
And sit thee by our side:
Are not within the leaf of pity writ,
ACT V
Shall stop or spur me. Have I done well?
Here is Lord Angelo shall give you justice:
Which since I know they virtuously are placed,
'Sicilia is a so-forth:' 'tis far gone,
What then?
With cozening hope: he is a flatterer,
To him one of the other twins was bound,
You patience to endure, and true repentance
And that the people of this blessed land
As by discharge of their artillery,
They mean this night in Sardis to be quarter'd,
I am glad he's come, howsoe'er he comes.
'Tis policy and stratagem must do
And what I want it boots not to complain.
Then, since the heavens have shaped my body so,
Subdues all pangs, all fears.
As if he were forgot, and, princes all,
And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.
That lend a tyrannous and damned light
No blown ambition doth our arms incite,
Therefore, no dancing, girl, some other sport.
love perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?
His practises to light?
Here is his cave.
and rebels' arms triumph in massacres!
to-day, whereupon the Grecians begin to proclaim
the truth, stolen from my host at Saint Alban's, or
thou hast thumped him with thy bird-bolt under the
I cannot weep, nor answer have I none,
To have her love, provided that your fortune
Great Herod to incline himself to Caesar,
I, gentle mistress.
Your company at dinner.
Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,
You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter?
trust you not, 'Hic steterat Priami,' take heed
Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate
Exit
stand bald before him: our general himself makes a
Therefore I beat thee.
To say the truth, this fact was infamous
Come not before him.
I'll write it straight,
Exit
This is her honour!
Buckles in his sum of age,
thou learn a prayer without book. Thou canst strike,
RICHARD
Seems to cry out, 'How shall that Claribel
Doth not Brutus bootless kneel?
Then, my queen, in silence sad,
Shake it off. Come on,
of pewter. But, Francis, darest thou be so valiant
Where is the number of our English dead?
Nay, good, sweet husband! Good gentlemen, let him
A plot shall show us all a merry day.
Snug, the joiner, you, the lion's part: and, I
Die I a villain, then!
ACT IV
Thereby to see the minutes how they run,
I am commanded, with your leave and favour,
This is the deadly spite that angers me,
Here am I left to underprop his land,
that same cowardly, giant-like ox-beef hath
Reads the inscription on MARINA's monument
Were wreck'd upon this shore, where I have lost--
Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
To have this young one made a Christian.
He is thy crutch, now if thou lose thy stay,
Master, Sir Thurio frowns on you.
Shalt waft them over with our royal fleet.
But how prevail'd you?
We are again forsworn, in will and error.
For fear of what might fall, so to prevent
Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,
Nay, but hark you, Francis: for the sugar thou
I am sorry for't, my lord.
Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
To scatter and disperse the giddy Goths,
Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
Either our history shall with full mouth
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
Exit Provost
Hence, away! now all is well:
Is all the grace I beg.
Is that she will not add to her damnation
She should have died hereafter,
lords, and gentlemen, with their coaches, I warrant
And therefore certainly it were not good
Humphrey of Buckingham, I accept thy greeting.
Thou art no father nor no friend of mine.
Even at his feet to lay my arms and power,
And, if though canst for blushing, view this face,
many in our land by the name of pitch: this pitch,
We were encounterd by a mighty rock,
SCENE IV:
With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no,
What ever have been thought on in this state,
merry? shall we have a play extempore?
other men's, then, to have seen much and to have
This will so fright them both that they will kill
Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.
Knight, you have beaten my men, killed my deer, and
My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel,
the grund for it, ay, or go to death, and ay'll pay
Prefix'd for's parting: yet, good deed, Leontes,
The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this,
Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soon
to the ground and list if thou canst hear the tread
And common good to all, made one of them.
I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial,
Lamentable! What,
With such full licence as both truth and malice
But he would bite none, just as I do now,
Exeunt
Falseness cannot come from thee, for thou look'st
within these two hours, and so, come in when ye will.
The opening of his mouth, but suddenly,
Upon so soft a subject as myself!
And all the haunt be ours. Come, Eros, Eros!
No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay.
Into this scatter'd kingdom, who already,
Enter Ghost
That, with the little godliness I have,
Of disobedient opposition
SCENE VIII. Under the walls of Alexandria.
Enter CHARLES, BURGUNDY, ALENCON, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, REIGNIER, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
could have seen 't, the woe had been universal.
I bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
Upon a labouring day without the sign
What you will, Monsieur Jaques.
how can that be true love which is falsely
Not proud, you have, but thankful, that you have:
Go, trumpet, to the walls, and sound a parle.
Welcome, lady.
As who should say, if I should sleep or eat,
liable, congruent and measurable for the afternoon:
All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished!'
[Aside]  I'll write to my lord she's dead. O Imogen,
Enter a Messenger
Were they not forced with those that should be ours,
I swear by that which I will lose for thee,
The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy
I saw the treasons planted.
With lesser weight but not with lesser woe,
As, if it can, I will presume in you--
Is Lucius general of the forces?
Hath well composed thee. Thy father's moral parts
Exit with DORCAS and MOPSA
Let me embrace thee, good old chronicle,
Unless he live until he be a man.
Of mercy, if thou didst this deed of death,
I beseech your highness, do not marry me to a whore.
I might have said 'No part of it is mine,
Sirs, stop their mouths, let them not speak to me,
How then? sick?
We'll draw cuts for the senior: till then lead thou first.
A most unworthy and unnatural lord
Exit
Here comes a gentleman that haply knows more.
My lady's father.
Exit BALTHASAR
The thing whereat it trembles by surmise,
A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
Which promises royal peril. Trumpeters,
Not much commendation to them.
Can lay to bed for ever, whiles you, doing thus,
You are the king King Edward hath deposed,
What is it, Timon?
my disposition? One inch of delay more is a
The swords of soldiers are his teeth, his fangs,
May I be bold to acquaint his grace you are gone about it?
O dear Diana,
Our royal, good and gallant ship, our master
gentleman, Lord Lucullus, entreats your company
Exeunt DUKE VINCENTIO and Provost
Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.
Exeunt Musicians
And conquer'd it, Cassibelan, thine uncle,--
To pay him tribute, submit thyself,
My elder brother, the Lord Aubrey Vere,
My holy lord of Milan, from the king
ACT I
Became the next day's master, till the last
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack,
Unless we sweep 'em from the door with cannons--
Fear, and not love, begets his penitence:
with bitter words. Why look you so upon me?
For the whole state, I would put mine armour on,
To my determined time thou gavest new date.
First know thou, I begot him on the empress.
And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
And spare no blood beside.
Forgive me in thine own particular,
that,--hissing hot,--think of that, Master Brook.
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
In England work your grace's full content.
That tell black tidings.
That yon green boy shall have no sun to ripe
not, but, I am sure, none, unless the fiddler Apollo
Civility not seen from other, valour
O son! the night before thy wedding-day
Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know,
Well, we shall see your bearing.
Myself, a prince by fortune of my birth,
Thou'rt a tall fellow: hold thee that to drink.
Come to what is important in't: I forgive you the praise.
At this odd-even and dull watch o' the night,
But I will write again to Mantua,
Thou art the damned doorkeeper to every
Full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights,
The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
Have ever made me sour my patient cheek,
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides, and
I say, this Ajax--
Aside to GLOUCESTER
Because the girl should not survive her shame,
Put up your sword. If this young gentleman
Respecting her that's gone. Besides, the gods
For, by these blessed candles of the night,
No, we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down.
Keep off them, for you sink.
First, who think you the most desertless man to be
Sent from a sort of tinkers to the king.
No more be done:
I did not see your grace: humbly on my knee
We'll give them present audience. Go, and bring them.
Thou must be married to no man but me,
Exeunt
Nay, that's impossible: she may wear her heart out first.
Say'st thou me so? is that a ton of moys?
Then, as I said, the duke, great Bolingbroke,
For I will love thee ne'er the less, my girl.
Upon the next live creature that it sees.
So to be false with her.
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM and GLOUCESTER
Whose limbs were made in England, show us here
To the most of men this is a Caliban
Something to save thy life.
Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
They fight: DOUGLAS flies
'Tell me what fate awaits the Duke of Suffolk?
O, quietness, lady!
And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
thee, Hal, I knew nothing, and now am I, if a man
He dies, and makes no sign. O God, forgive him!
Shall have the fame. I have heard that Julius Caesar
Doth make against me of this direful murder,
The bawdy wind that kisses all it meets
Let sapphire, pearl and rich embroidery,
Nay, but to live
Enter ANGELO, ESCALUS, and a Justice, Provost, Officers, and other Attendants, behind
Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep,
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
More ready to cry out 'Who knows what follows?'
This is not well, my lord, this is not well.
As could not be distinguish'd but by names.
I strike quickly, being moved.
Thy place in council thou hast rudely lost.
We have noted it. Call her before us, for
leads to the broad gate and the great fire.
Whose pitchy mantle over-veil'd the earth.
Straight will I bring you to the loathsome pit
To be so anger'd with another letter.
When what's not meet, but what must be, was law,
We two have sworn shall come.
Sufficeth I am come to keep my word,
To a mother's part belongs. He turns away:
the table, let a dozen of them be--as they are. The
These antique fables, nor these fairy toys.
Well, let us go.
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
They have made him drink alms-drink.
Now, my good sweet honey lord, ride with us
Widow! Charmian, hark.
Commend me to the princes in our camp,
Copp'd hills towards heaven, to tell the earth is throng'd
'Tis not for fear but anger that thy cheeks
As of a knight well-spoken, neat and fine,
But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile,
O, but remember this another day,
Both more and less have given him the revolt,
And, whiles I live, to account this world but hell,
And cull'd these fiery spirits from the world,
I saw his heart in 's face. Give me thy hand:
To feast so great a warrior in my house.
'Tis much when sceptres are in children's hands,
Take that, and mend the plucking off the other.
Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on--
Camillo, this great sir will yet stay longer.
Now fair befall your mask!
Ah, Warwick! Montague hath breathed his last,
I think he only loves the world for him.
As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
This day is ours, as many more shall be.
And you the mutinous members, for examine
Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.
What do you call the play?
Tell me, can you deliver an oration to the emperor
Exit
March to assault thy country than to tread--
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
at suit of his gray beard,--
Enter ANTONIO
That calumny doth use--O, I am out--
[Within]  What ho, my liege! for God's sake,
DON
Beshrew me, I would,
More than mistress of
oftener ask forgiveness.
Were I like thee, I'ld throw away myself.
Which, as I take't, we shall, for his best force
Not a jot more, my lord.
Sweet leaves, shade folly. Who is he comes here?
I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
Gentleman, God save thee.
Like friends long lost. Triple-turn'd whore!
I am very glad to see you, signior
Sorrow and grief have vanquish'd all my powers,
Enter three or four, and offer to bind him. He strives
And I shall have no power to follow you.
I must catechise you for it, madonna: good my mouse
things for bird-bolts that you deem cannon-bullets:
Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,
Now, God incense him,
Mistake me not, my lord, 'tis not my meaning
Yes, mine's three thousand crowns: what's yours?
In their fair cheeks, my lord, then we shall have 'em
And begg'd the ring, the which I did deny him
But such as I, without your special pardon,
him kill the next Percy himself. I look to be either
Upon a desperate bed, and in a time
My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius,
overjoyed with finding a birds' nest, shows it his
My power? Alas, I doubt--
Beside, I fear me, if thy thoughts were sifted,
One thing or other: when thou didst not, savage,
That now she is become as black as I.
Being opposites of such repairing nature.
No more words, Thersites, peace!
And to his image, which methought did promise
And so
Who here hath lain these two days buried.
So, now dismiss your army when ye please:
So he has.
Exeunt
Let's mock the midnight bell.
And is enough for both.
If I do so, it will be of more price,
Are we all met?
For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
He dares not calm his contumelious spirit
Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern
And for mine too: when law can do no right,
Ajax,' and he replies 'Thanks, Agamemnon.' What think
Being Leonatus, doth import so much.
I'll by a sign give notice to our friends,
Well, you temporize with the hours. In the
O, dismiss this audience, and I shall tell you more.
How with a sportful malice it was follow'd,
Nay. but his taunts.
Have words to bid you, and shall find it so
man i' the moon?
Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain,
The other half comes to the general state,
Here grow no damned grudges, here are no storms,
'zounds, I would make him eat a piece of my sword.
What means this scene of rude impatience?
At requiring,
I am determined to prove a villain
they not malefactors?
Himself love's traitor: this is pity now,
As from my death-bed, thy last living leave.
Caesar to you, in plain dealing, Pompey, I shall
How dost thou mean a fat marriage?
Dead, dead? A tomb
I'm weary of this charge, the gods can witness:
Willingly,
Good George, be not angry: I knew of your purpose,
Most rightful judge!
For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch,
Our viands had been poison'd, or at least
But shall we make the welkin dance indeed? shall we
Divide thy lips, than we are confident,
Make me not offended
At Christmas I no more desire a rose
Beyond all manner of so much I love you.
The beauty of this sinful dame
And the rich East to boot.
will sully: in Barbary, sir, it cannot come to so much.
Repair to the Capitol.
Which I had recommended to his use
Scoff on, vile fiend and shameless courtezan!
From south to west on wing soaring aloft,
Good cousin, be advised, stir not tonight.
What's her name in the cap?
Knock,
Did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound?
Nor curstness grow to the matter.
Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
I heard a bustling rumour, like a fray,
I came unto your court for honour's cause,
By waves from coast to coast is tost:
Grow great by your example and put on
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Which you might from relation likewise reap,
What, must I hold a candle to my shames?
Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight:
It is yours,
Which way thou travellest: if along with us,
But let desert in pure election shine,
He knows not what he says: and vain it is
Re-enter Servant
For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand,
Let me confirm my princely brother's greeting:
Enter a Servant
This whole earth may be bored and that the moon
separation of their society, their encounters,
Your fellow Tranio here, to save my life,
Our greatest friends attend us.
Why, what is pomp, rule, reign, but earth and dust?
'Tis like a pardon after execution:
and I profess requital to a hair's breadth, not
I will some other be, some Florentine,
thought on,
He is elder.
The name of king? o' God's name, let it go:
To hear my nothings monster'd.
And yet, in faith, thou bear'st thee like a king:
How the English, in the suburbs close intrench'd,
What, will you have me, or your pearl again?
Study is like the heaven's glorious sun
Against the Moor: for, I do know, the state,
will also be the bondage of certain ribbons and gloves.
But can do more in England than the king.
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
Is sum of something, which, to term in gross,
And never stir assailants.
Shall I be charged no further than this present?
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
So many of his shadows thou hast met
I will stand to and feed,
Good counsel, marry: learn it, learn it, marquess.
O Lord, sir, the parties themselves, the actors,
but in the figures and comparisons of it: as
Vouchsafe, at our request, to stand aside,
And sleep an act or two, but those, we fear,
Stay thy revengeful hand, thou hast no cause to fear.
His Philomel must lose her tongue to-day,
Exit
And so to arms, victorious father,
Not so, sweet  lady: but too mean a servant
How long hath she been deformed?
ACT V
And whiter than the sheets! That I might touch!
Which died in Geffrey, and the hand of time
charge it against me. I pray you choose another subject.
To weep is to make less the depth of grief:
Is perjured to the bosom? Proteus,
And, in good time! now will we break with him.
But, dost thou hear? gavest thou my letter to Julia?
Corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices,
Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble
That he is grown so great? Age, thou art shamed!
I see a man's life is a tedious one:
of Cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to
A lord of Trojan blood, nephew to Hector,
They say he parted well, and paid his score:
and how my transformation hath been washed and
Aside
When arm in arm they both came swiftly running,
With thy most operant poison! What is here?
eyes, there was speech in their dumbness, language
And patient underbearing of his fortune,
[Aside to PROSPERO]          Was't well done?
Exeunt KING LEAR and KENT
Than the rebuke you give it.
When icicles hang by the wall
No, nor I neither, but most wonderful that she
I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close.
My heart misgives me: here comes Master Fenton.
This, this: no more, you gods! your present kindness
Here, sir: I'ld have beaten him like a dog, but for
What now?
You have a gentle heart. I saw you lately,
We came hither to fight with you.
Eating the flesh that she herself hath bred.
Shall win the wager which we will propose.
And what have I to give you back, whose worth
Knock at his study, where, they say, he keeps,
In their continuance will not feel themselves.
And, as you trip, still pinch him to your time.
If thou be found by me, thou art but dead.
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
That therefore such a writ be sued against you,
Shall find but bloody safety and untrue.
Music plays. Enter two or three Servants with a banquet
Report of fashions in proud Italy,
I am sorry for thee: thou art come to answer
You may have very fit occasion for't: he is now in
not on thy baseness court-contempt? Thinkest thou,
If I can fasten but one cup upon him,
But yet, alas, stood I within his grace,
To acquaint you with this evil, that you might
Shepherdess,
I would to God that the inclusive verge
You know my mind, I'll fight no more 'gainst Troy.
For you have show'd me that which well approves
The Earl of Armagnac, near knit to Charles,
Leads discontented steps in foreign soil,
Sad, lady! I could be sad: this does make some
A sin of perjury, she not denies it:
Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit:
And truly yielded you. You're very welcome.
had never been born.
propositions of a lover, but take a taste of my
A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!
With this most tender air.
Never to hope again.
'Tis torture, and not mercy: heaven is here,
A lack of Timon's aid, hath sense withal
Cesario is your servant's name, fair princess.
I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.
Alas, he speaks but for his friend.
master in the way of marriage.
I fear there will a worse come in his place.
For which the people stir: if you will pass
come? to see: why did he see? to overcome: to
And something to be done immediately.
England, I could find in my heart.
When will he be here?
I'll perfect him withal, and he shall bring you
Press not a falling man too far! 'tis virtue:
But he's an arrant knave.
Religious canons, civil laws are cruel,
When I came hither to transport the tidings,
Go down upon him, you have power enough,
Exit
Lies down and sleeps
As miserable by the life of thee
If sorrow can admit society,
Bring me word how tall she is. Pity me, Charmian,
By having him, making yourself no less.
The edge of war, like an ill-sheathed knife,
As I intend more good to you and yours,
Or shall we on, and not depend on you?
will be known to-night, or never. Be you in the
Exeunt severally
Why, here's a girl! I think she knows not well,
Put but a little water in a spoon,
Great reason that my noble lord be rated
You'll give me leave to spare, when you shall find
through the very middest of you? and heavens and
And many a civil monster.
Let not my worser spirit tempt me again
kiss your hand, and so I leave you. By this hand,
Now, Montague, sit fast, I seek for thee,
For Livia and Octavia, to induce
Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck
And unavoided is the danger now,
Are not you the chief woman? you are the thickest here.
He is but one: you and my brother search
too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell, thou
'Hic steterat,' and that Lucentio that comes
Return you thither?
Tom will make them weep and wail:
For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite
How now, sirrah! how goes the world with thee?
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VIII and Guard
have of late knocked too often at my door. I find
This prince, the fair-betrothed of your daughter,
If I may ever know thou dost but sigh
That I repair to Rome, I am content.
Let's obey his humour a little further: come,
And, I think, if my breast had not been made of
What need a man care for a stock with a wench, when
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
Sitting down by her
Meeting were bare without it.
Forsooth, I have forgot.
Which some did die to look on: and all this--
With us to break his neck.
Yet that thy brazen gates of heaven may ope,
To dream on evil or to work my downfall.
I will resist such entertainment till
With resolution, wheresoe'er I meet thee--
deserving: you have lost no reputation at all,
O that there were some virtue in my tears,
Could not out-peer these twain. Pardon me, gods!
To cry 'Hold, hold!'
not that strange?
Encompass'd with thy lustful paramours!
And he himself confess'd but even now
Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,
Thetis, being proud, swallow'd some part o' the earth:
Whispers the Masquers
A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall
Of my consent that she should be your wife.
entertainment.
This gallant pins the wenches on his sleeve,
[Aside]  One of Lord Timon's men? a gift, I
To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
the gift of fortune, but to write and read comes by nature.
of me, there can be no kernel in this light nut, the
shall read it in--what do you call there?
The deserts of Bohemia?
A fellow, sir, that I have known to go about with
We will make amends ere long,
Than, living dully sluggardized at home,
Into some covert: take your sweetheart's hat
How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
I warrant you, when time is serve.
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Will I set up my everlasting rest,
And you my good lords, both have well proceeded,
be, give it me, for I am slow of study.
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confused
And therefore fortify your hold, my lord.
I am now from home, and out of that provision
Therefore be gone, solicit me no more.
Another stain, as big as hell can hold,
Exit
He speaks home, madam: You may relish him more in
Which shows me mine changed too, for I must be
Peace, doting wizard, peace! I am not mad.
SCENE II. The same. Before Calchas' tent.
And these assume but valour's excrement
think so, which is another spur to my departure.
Even to my person, than I thought he would
But, since the cuckoo builds not for himself,
Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:
Then be your eyes the witness of this ill:
O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence,
Advance our half-faced sun, striving to shine,
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
To leave my Julia, shall I be forsworn,
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he
open. He was torn to pieces with a bear: this
Is most divinely vow'd upon the right
John Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Earl of Surrey,
Who, busied in his majesty, surveys
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
And, like ambitious Sylla, overgorged
prophetically proud of an heroical cudgelling that he
Upon that day either prepare to die
Our terrible approach.
The coward horse that bears me fail and die!
This is the strangest fellow, brother John.
When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept:
Exit
Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
Nay, to be perjured, which is worst of all,
What do you think of my daughter, sir?
Exeter, thou art a traitor to the crown
The constant service of the antique world,
Spoke like a tail fellow that respects his
And his contract by deputy in France,
See where they come: I'll warrant they'll
reserve it, how shall's get it?
May hourly trample on their sovereign's head,
ANTIPHOLUS
Died with their swords in hand, for which
'Tis rigor and not law. Your honours all,
Your grace has given a precedent of wisdom
How fares the king and's followers?
yours? What's here!
That touch me near, wherein thou must be secret.
Discredit my authority with yours,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
horse upon our own wings, and to rend our own soldiers!
But what said Lady Bona to my marriage?
My gracious lord, here is the bag of gold.
This cherry nose,
Exit
O peace, peace, peace! now, now.
O detestable villain! call'st thou that trimming?
Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends, you were
I do not like the Tower, of any place.
Comfort, my lord, and so I take my leave.
In England and in Ireland, not confessing
I do desire to learn, sir: and I hope, if you have
O monstrous act!
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
Where that his lords desire him to have borne
in his youth an inland man, one that knew courtship
You are the king's now.
Conjectural marriages, making parties strong
And here will rest me.
That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
SCENE VII. Before York.
Come, bring them away: if these be good people in
And never mayst thou come Lysander near!
No.
May turn the tide of fearful faction
Here comes a flattering rascal, upon him
The law, with all his might to enforce it on,
And then I need not crave his courtesy.
To wit, besides commends and courteous breath,
Where bloody murder or detested rape
Ay, forsooth, and, I pray, how does good Mistress Anne?
Now, Charmian!
I would not change it.
Tell me how Wales was made so happy as
Let not her penance exceed the king's commission.
Thou, eunuch Mardian!
Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvolio
Villain, thou didst deny the gold's receipt,
belongs to reason, and canst use the time well, if
Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.
In buckram?
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
All preparation for a bloody siege
Benefactors? Well, what benefactors are they? are
Anon, I wot not by what strong escape,
Infected be the air whereon they ride,
Come, and take choice of all my library,
Is else devoted, I am but a shadow,
And who should say, 'I would thou wert the man'
Ay, and perhaps receive much honour by him.
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
May this be borne?--as if his traitorous sons,
Frateretto calls me, and tells me
slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this
Exit
disposition.
Hark you. far off!
A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio.
And leave your children, wives and you in peace.
Forget the shames that you have stain'd me with,
If it hath ruffian'd so upon the sea,
Not so hot, good sir:
In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,
Have done, have done.
Which have for long run by the hideous law,
RICHARD
Whene'er we come to our account.
Indeed, I have been merrier.
That nightly lie in those unproper beds
Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one:
Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
My present business calls me from you now.
Making such difference 'twixt wake and sleep
He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt, he knows
That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?
Who lent it you?
grace say Amen to it.
What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady
To those that, without heed, do plunge into 't.
the prince your brother, spare not to tell him that
And give him chastisement for this abuse.
And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
I would not for a million of gold
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
The Grecian dames are sunburnt and not worth
For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph day.
But what, o' God's name, doth become of this?
O my dear Cassio! my sweet Cassio! O Cassio,
A rider like myself, who ne'er wore rowel
Co-rivall'd greatness? Either to harbour fled,
Yet nature is made better by no mean
ANTIPHOLUS
That what you speak is in your conscience wash'd
We prove this very hour.
Of the all-building law, and that there were
Must I be his last refuge! His friends, like
With good acceptance of his majesty,
If you do not, if I be left alone,
And, to sink in it, should you burden love,
And that you fly them as you swear them lordship,
Not to eat honey like a drone
This is practise, Gloucester:
Who m eets us here?  my niece Plantagenet
I will attend my husband, be his nurse,
why, it must be requited. I hear how I am censured:
This valley fits the purpose passing well.
Look round about the wicked streets of Rome,
That I crave death more willingly than mercy,
Was it not so?
Welcome, my lord	how far off lies your power?
Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.
But dies, betray'd to fortune by your strife.
With which he yoketh your rebellious necks,
ANTIPHOLUS
for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year.
'Tis bitter.
You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
To these ill-tuned repetitions.
Having neither subject, wealth, nor diadem.
Upon the stroke of ten.
Exit ESCALUS
for turning away, let summer bear it out.
If for I want that glib and oily art,
Launcelot,' or 'good Gobbo,' or good Launcelot
drowned, and these are devils: O defend me!
So is it in the music of men's lives.
Good sir, to the purpose.
And so break off, the day is almost spent:
I say again, hath made a gross revolt,
To tell him that his sword can never win
And for his dreams, I wonder he is so fond
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up,
But prosper better than the Trojan did.
There's order given for her coronation:
I do embrace your offer, and dispose
Where art thou, proud Demetrius? speak thou now.
Look to her, Moor, if thou hast eyes to see:
And the detention of long-since-due debts,
To work mine end upon their senses that
If it be mine,
I pray you, let me look upon the bond.
sir? You are very well met: God 'ild you for your
have daffed all other respects and made her half
it should take joy
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
How strangely?
And posts, like the commandment of a king,
Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
By fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen,
Beshrew the winners, for they play'd me false!
Look, Marcus! ah, son Lucius, look on her!
How now shall this be compassed?
melted, if you give him not John Drum's
See, they forsake me! Now the time is come
Counsel, Lucetta, gentle girl, assist me,
If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on
More than I love these eyes, more than my life,
I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,
ACT II
She is something before her time deliver'd.
Have skipp'd from sixteen years of age to sixty,
Like to a ship that, having 'scaped a tempest,
adheres together, that no dram of a scruple, no
These likelihoods confirm her flight from hence.
Sir Topas, never was man thus wronged: good Sir
I'll follow you, and tell what answer
Ah, Humphrey, this dishonour in thine age
Yet for this once, yea, superstitiously,
No, indeed, did she not: here have I brought him
Conduct me to the queen.
Be it lawful I take up what's cast away.
This by the eye of Cynthia hath she vow'd
Your goods that lay at host, sir, in the Centaur.
Will not this malice, Somerset, be left?
To curb those raging appetites that are
We beg your hearing patiently.
What would you have, friend? whence are you?
O, my fair cousin, I must not say so.
O Publius, is not this a heavy case,
To any pastime?
Laying down her dagger
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
himself out of his five sentences.
And some condemned for a fault alone.
Enter Host, SHALLOW, SLENDER, and PAGE
fellow! Go thy way, Hector! There's a brave man,
confessed and lamented by the king, how
Here comes another troop to seek for you.
Be now as prodigal of all dear grace
Hold, villain!
This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon,
Since the first sword was drawn about this question,
O, you, my lord? by Mars his gauntlet, thanks!
Enter Hostess
bow-string and the little hangman dare not shoot at
Exeunt
Since then hath made between them. Unto her
Enter the BASTARD
Did ever love so dearly: let her live
Why, my sweet lord?
And therefore have I little talk'd of love,
A thing most brutish, I endow'd thy purposes
To yield what passes here.
And furbish new the name of John a Gaunt,
For it was sometime target to a king,
The demi-Atlas of this earth, the arm
And hold no longer out.
Traitors have never other company.
flesh ye, come on, young master.
Look how we can, or sad or merrily,
Caesar, thou art revenged,
Find pardon on my true submission.
That I have done for you.
I am stuffed, cousin, I cannot smell.
But that my heart's on future mischief set,
Without observance or respect of any,
Which all men speak with him.
Thou must be gone, wench, thou must be gone, thou
The water nectar and the rocks pure gold.
Which to reduce into our former favour
The princess dowager? how goes her business?
Thou didst well, for wisdom cries out in the
From these devourers to be banished!
requiring with a plausible obedience, agree with
That the great child of honour, Cardinal Wolsey, Was dead?
Both your majesties
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
Down therefore and beg mercy of the duke.
For, I protest, we are well fortified
Alarbus goes to rest, and we survive
Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
Enter OLIVIA
What's thy name?
For then I pity those I do not know,
mortality, and desperately mortal.
To make a perfect woman, she you kill'd
When his wife's dead, therefore I'll lie with him
Thou'rt i' the right, girl, more o, that.
Master Barnardine!
Ah, one that was a woful looker-on
Blind with the pin and web but theirs, theirs only,
Say Warwick was our anchor, what of that?
Ay, by my life,
art piled, for a French velvet. Do I speak
will tell you.
To be a speaker free, when I am hence
For that's an article within our law,
An if I wist he did,--but let it rest,
My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
No, Antony, take the lot: but, first
Patience is scottish, and impatience does
You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
There is no fellow in the firmament.
Within this hour it will be dinner-time:
It may be worth thy pains, for I can sing
security enough to make fellowships accurst: much
With a reed voice, and turn two mincing steps
Defiles the pitchy night: so lust doth play
And Warwick rages like a chafed bull:
Hum! go to thy cold bed, and warm thee.
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
With ruffs and cuffs and fardingales and things,
If he come not, then the play is marred: it goes
Varro's
White-liver'd runagate, what doth he there?
the morning, and so, good morrow, Peto.
Now my old arms are young John Talbot's grave.
They love not poison that do poison need,
Let this dissension first be tried by fight,
My lord, in heart, and let the health go round.
Music
Prithee, let's walk. Now, by my holidame.
What is that Barnardine who is to be executed in the
So man and man should be,
Have told me, I being by, that I should kill him?
Why dost thou run so many mile about,
Rust, sword? cool, blushes! and, Parolles, live
Awake the god of day, and, at his warning,
The Prince of Wales from such a field as this,
To see the making of her carcanet,
He says they can do nothing in this kind.
If she pertain to life let her speak too.
had ne'er come here.
On the first view to say, to swear, I love thee.
Noble she is, but if she have forgot
With most delicious poison. Think on me,
That aged ears play truant at his tales
be just! This is the letter he spoke of, which
SCENE V. Mytilene. A street before the brothel.
Fortune, good night: smile once more: turn thy wheel!
She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat,
Help, help, O, help!
home and to trouble you with no more suit, unless
Nonsuits my mediators, for, 'Certes,' says he,
Something from Venice, sure. 'Tis Lodovico
A certain queen to Caesar in a mattress.
And do not shear the fleeces that I graze:
What advocate hast thou to him?
Of that black name, Edward, Black Prince of Wales,
To any lady that subdues a lord.
Say not we brought it.
his servant, for they purpose not their death, when
'Yea,' quoth my husband,'fall'st upon thy face?
So dying love lives still:
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
remedy presents itself. I do make myself believe
To hear the replication of your sounds
And a good soldier to a lady: but what is he to a lord?
With hearts more proof than shields. Advance,
with man, woman, or child.
CARDINAL
Fery well: what is it?
Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?
SCENE IV. The same. Hall in the palace.
Take not, good cousin, further than you should.
Of holy reverence, who, I cannot learn.
A march afar off
Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case to
As you were lesson'd, when he had no power,
More rich for what they yielded.
So may it be, indeed:
What's thine own name?
Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!
Therein do men from children nothing differ.
An if it do, take it for thy labour, and if it make
Nor boots it me to say I honour him.
Enter PEMBROKE
Sir,
Exit
Tear me, take me, and the gods fall upon you!
Yet such is now the duke's condition
Can never be so equal, that your love
Now my charms are all o'erthrown,
strange guest he has here.
Invited by your noble self, hath sent
That can from Hector bring his honour off,
In the seat royal of this famous isle?
And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt:
And I:
What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
That tyrannous heart can think? To one of your receiving
In wrongful quarrel you have slain your son.
He will not wake.
To these two princes, if you marry them.
The king will always think him in our debt,
This is a merry ballad, but a very pretty one.
Than is her custom: it is still her use
Lament till I am lost.
And no way canst thou turn thee for redress,
On, on, on, on, on! to the breach, to the breach!
To cross me from the golden time I look for!
Have suffer'd like a girl: yet thou dost look
Distinction, with a broad and powerful fan,
But, ere I go, Hastings and Montague,
A' could never abide carnation, 'twas a colour he
Ay, every joint should seem to curse and ban:
Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and that
How is this justified?
As with foul incest to abuse your soul,
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano,
He by the senate is accit'd home
An uproar, I dare warrant,
Help me into some house, Benvolio,
I am no villain, I am the youngest son of Sir
Thy medicine on my lips, and let this kiss
Never did thought of mine levy offence,
But smother'd it within my panting bulk,
Thou liest.
And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me,
Sends thee this word,--that, if thou love thy sons,
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
For that, being one o' the lowest, basest, poorest,
Of base insinuating flattery
Fraught with the ministers and instruments
Till death, that winter, kill it.
Trust not my reading nor my observations,
His good remembrance, sir,
Sings
Pardon me, gracious lord,
Was broke in twain, by whom I have forgot,
I desire no more.
glover's paring-knife?
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING of France, with letters, and divers Attendants
Lo, what befell! he threw his eye aside,
I must become a borrower of the night
To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,
The trusty Thisby, coming first by night,
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and a British Lord
Was in the wreck, and, but he's something stain'd
Hark further.
Antony
Lead him off.
Than give thy cause away.
Am like to do: take in your arms this piece
Hast thou no care of me? shall I abide
Mine ears, that heard her flattery, nor my heart,
To put a strange face on his own perfection.
My very soul of counsel! stop my mouth.
Thy buried fear: herein all breathless lies
'Item: She is curst.'
'Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio,
And Talbot perisheth by your default.
That he is dead, good Warwick, 'tis too true,
His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles,
In loud rebellion.
To hinder our beginnings. We doubt not now
On chaliced flowers that lies,
Had been dishabited, and wide havoc made
Loaden with irons wiser than the judge,
Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bones
And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
Rome, I have been thy soldier forty years,
And enter in our ears like great triumphers
The worst of all her scholars, my good lord.
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
I have promised to study three years with the duke.
The battle done, and they within our power,
Betwixt your eyes and night?
My lord, your valiant kinsman, Faulconbridge,
Your son and daughter found this trespass worth
I had as lief not be as live to be
longer. Some mollification for your giant, sweet
What fit is this, good lady?
and I a sheep?
Rascals should have 't. Do not assume my likeness.
pox of the devil.'
DON
Fetch us in fuel, and be quick, thou'rt best,
Make rash remonstrance of my hidden power
In action all of precept, he did show me
Durst make too bold a herald of my tongue
than I do with her, I thank heaven.
how you take it!
And wish he had not so accused her,
I have on Angelo imposed the office,
Against the grace and person of my master,
That through our intercession this revokement
I shall not know him: therefore never, never
When shall we see again?
Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.
When all our offices have been oppress'd
And triumphs over chance in honour's bed.
I prithee go and get me some repast,
If it be so, out with it boldly, man,
[Aside]	The Duke of Milan
Concolinel.
Youth, thou bear'st thy father's face,
I am as able and as fit as thou
Why, thy godhead laid apart,
SCENE I. Court of Macbeth's castle.
DON
The soldier's pole is fall'n: young boys and girls
And therein show'd like enemies.
Be blind with tears, and break o'ercharged with grief.
Dear my lord, pardon,--I dare not,
purpose, courage and valour, this night show it: if
How easy is it for the proper-false
Why stay we, then?
We the globe can compass soon,
No hope to have redress? My body shall
The forest walks are wide and spacious,
My life, sir, in any case: not that I am afraid to
Not all together: better far, I guess,
And then it lived in sweet Elysium.
our supplications in the quill.
That paragons description and wild fame,
Ever right.
Exeunt
Thou diedst, a most rare boy, of melancholy.
No more yielding but a dream,
remembered of it, the Welshmen did good service in a
It did, it did, alas the day, it did!
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.
I'll play the housewife for this once. What, ho!
O disloyal thing,
If I lose them, thus find I by their loss
Re-enter IRAS with a robe, crown,  and c
at the dearest chandler's in Europe. I have
In base appliances. This outward-sainted deputy,
Now he denies it faintly, and laughs it out.
wert thou a horse, thou wouldst be seized by the
Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler?
Ay, and Wall too.
So slight, unworthy and ridiculous,
Who doth permit the base contagious clouds
Go some of you and fetch a looking-glass.
From the four corners of the earth they come,
proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as
Thou idle dreamer, wherefore didst thou so?
Hidest thou that forehead with a golden crown,
Rejoice, you men of Angiers, ring your bells:
We are come to you to do a good office, master parson.
Who finds the partridge in the puttock's nest,
But to know so must be my benefit,
As Priam was for all his valiant sons.
Which speed, we hope, the better for our words.
No more of stay! to-morrow thou must go.
See, by good hap, yonder's my lord,
How much an ill word may empoison liking.
A modern ecstasy, the dead man's knell
Enter an AEdile
for tittles? titles, for thyself? me. Thus,
but in all things? wherein worthy, but in nothing?
To God of heaven, King Richard and to me,
And he did render him the most unnatural
And, as I am a gentleman, I credit him.
This follows, if you will not change your purpose
ANTIPHOLUS
So true men yield, with robbers so o'ermatch'd.
shall be such to Cressid as what envy can say worst
How now, my lords! what, all unready so?
Why, then is my pump well flowered.
Days and nights has thirty-one
You and Fidele play the cooks: I'll stay
From Hamlet! who brought them?
A thousand pounds a year for pure respect!
How many hours bring about the day,
I never saw before. Great-bellied women,
All unavoided is the doom of destiny.
It hath in solemn synods been decreed
None but the fool, who labours to out-jest
Here comes little Robin.
Draw lots who shall begin.
Cassius,
Exeunt
And yet I love him.
The music of the spheres! List, my Marina.
Where the quick freshes are.
A weight of carrion flesh than to receive
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
cook. I speak to thee plain soldier: If thou canst
And I,--like one lost in a thorny wood,
His wife is in Corioli and his child
Beget your happiness, be happy then,
Alack. I love myself. Wherefore?  for any good
Thy resolved patient, on thee still rely.
That could endure the toothache patiently,
Brutus, what shall be done? If this be known,
The ruthless flint doth cut my tender feet,
And, truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
Madam, I am here.
The marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe,
Caesar's better parts
We'll borrow place of him.
Canst thou demise to any child of mine?
are full of deceits?
Over whose acres walk'd those blessed feet
Trumpets, sennet, and cornets. Enter two Vergers,  with short silver wands, next them, two Scribes, in  the habit of doctors, after them, CANTERBURY alone,  after him, LINCOLN, Ely, Rochester, and Saint  Asaph, next them, with some small distance, follows  a Gentleman bearing the purse, with the great seal,  and a cardinal's hat, then two Priests, bearing  each a silver cross, then a Gentleman-usher  bare-headed, accompanied with a Sergeant-at-arms  bearing a silver mace, then two Gentlemen bearing  two great silver pillars, after them, side by side,  CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS, two Noblemen  with the sword and mace. KING HENRY VIII takes  place under the cloth of state, CARDINAL WOLSEY and  CARDINAL CAMPEIUS sit under him as judges. QUEEN  KATHARINE takes place some distance from KING  HENRY VIII. The Bishops place themselves on each  side the court, in manner of a consistory, below  them, the Scribes. The Lords sit next the Bishops.  The rest of the Attendants stand in convenient order about the stage
How shall we part with them in setting forth?
peaceable reign and good government.
Exit a Lord
Here, Lord Bassanio, swear to keep this ring.
That, neither in birth or for authority,
But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy
This was thy daughter.
I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
That may succeed as his inheritor,
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments,
Could say 'This is my wife' there, all were woven
If happy England's royal king be free.
Thou art a villain.
Hold thy desperate hand:
him: and at my entreaty forbear his presence
Back to our brother England.
As fat as tame things: one good deed dying tongueless
Such instigations have been often dropp'd
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change,
such a foolish song. God be wi' you, and God mend
The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept:
Via, goodman Dull! thou hast spoken no word all this while.
In the restoring his bereaved sense?
Than love that would seem hid: love's night is noon.
Delay it not, I'll have him hence to-night:
Enter the PRINCE and Attendants
How now, my lord, what say the citizens?
Whose heart I thought I had, for she had mine,
By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very
But most it is presumption in us when
Wash'd it with tears? Hence from her! let her die.
Not whom we will, but whom his grace affects,
When your false masters eat of my lord's meat?
Shall that victorious hand be feebled here,
But to go hang my head all at one side,
That makes him gasp and stare and catch the air,
I have not sought the day of this dislike.
This cannot be,
Or not my father's. For I cannot be
You mistook, sir, I say, she did nod: and you ask
creature of sale.
Will come to know his destiny:
These words hereafter thy tormentors be!
And leave you to your graver steps. Hermione,
Hath he said any thing?
Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,
[Aside]  But when the fox hath once got in his nose,
Too like the sire for ever being good.
Killing in relapse of mortality.
Well, sir, there rest in your foolery. Is there any
that touch pitch will be defiled: the most peaceable
Here's no place for you: pray, go to the door.
At Worcester must his body be interr'd,
What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
Enter certain Senators, and pass over
When all her chivalry hath been in France
And the business you have broached here cannot be
What now, my son! have I not ever said
Like poison given to work a great time after,
And justify you traitors: at this time
arrived but hither.
I have seen tempests, when the scolding winds
And none your foes but such as shall pretend
Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,
The head and he shall louse,
A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
It is both he and she,
Is at last gasp: return he cannot, nor
That more for praise than purpose meant to kill.
Hang 'em! They say!
Know you not
ACT IV
I wish your enterprise to-day may thrive.
Stand up, good Canterbury:
Saucy controller of our private steps!
The land is burning, Percy stands on high,
Some say, that though she appear honest to me, yet in
A bachelor, a handsome stripling too:
He hears with ears.
What danger or what sorrow can befall thee,
courser, for my horse is my mistress.
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
With variable objects shall expel
The former man may make him. Bring us to him,
I beg cold comfort, and you are so strait
Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth
Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR and OCTAVIA
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face?
His days are foul and his drink dangerous.
For why, the senseless brands will sympathize
some, of beguiling virgins with the broken seals of
Hold here, take this: tell gentle Jessica
I wish't might fall on me, when I was found
more, for look, where my abridgement comes.
Now give me some surance that thou art Revenge,
Is gone to meet the king, who lately landed
mouth. Therefore, precisely, can you carry your
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and others
powers, drove the grossness of the foppery into a
Pur! the cat is gray.
Villain, I say, knock me here soundly.
Trouble him no further, thus you still shall find him.
And shall perchance do good: but speak you on,
And great affections wrestling in thy bosom
Are all thrown down, and that which here stands up
For my part, if a lie may do thee grace,
And there's for twitting me with perjury.
Most sweet Hercules! More authority, dear boy, name
Thou canst not strike it thus to make it still.
but I say, 'tis the bee's wax, for I did but seal
Alas the day!
Or sack this country with a mutiny.
Are we turn'd Turks, and to ourselves do that
Come, sister,--cousin, I would say--pray, pardon me.
These signs have mark'd me extraordinary,
Than they are to their virtues, which is nothing.
Exeunt
Give me a cup of sack, rogue. Is there no virtue extant?
Points to his heart
This Antioch, then, Antiochus the Great
Heaven forgive our sins
O tiger's heart wrapt in a woman's hide!
more delicate way than drowning. Make all the money
It might have since been answer'd in repaying
Heard you confess you had the chain of him
She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
no less esteemed.
On terms of base compulsion! Can it be
And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
Is spied in populous cities.
In her pavilion--cloth-of-gold of tissue--
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
DON
The money that you owe me for the chain.
I would fain know what you have to say.
nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct, and so we
I am a very villain else.
friends, drove him into this melancholy.
For soldiers' pay in France, and never sent it?
Her salt tears fell from her, and soften'd the stones,
As much in private, and I'll bid adieu.
Renowned Talbot doth expect my aid,
that, cousin, let him be a handsome fellow, or else
And in our coronation take your place.
Am heir to my affection.
what: what have I brought you to do?
Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds,
So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue,
Upon mine honour, he shall never know
This orb o' the earth. His last offences to us
All these well furnish'd by the Duke of Bretagne
Or friends with Caesar, or not captive to him,
compass, Sir John.
I know we shall have revelling to-night:
When it is baked with frost.
We fail!
The skipping king, he ambled up and down
The king with mighty and quick-raised power
If you will see her: now, by my faith and honour,
Enter the two French Lords and some two or three Soldiers
'Your--wife, so I would say--
Counting myself but bad till I be best.
Be you content: good Cinna, take this paper,
I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again:
Made it no conscience to destroy a prince.
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
and, God be thanked, well to live.
Nay, but he'll be here presently: let's go dress him
Let me see your eyes,
Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!
If by strong hand you offer to break in
She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to
The graceless action of a heavy hand,
Or else our spell is marr'd.
I did but crave.
And swear I lost the ring defending it.
SCENE II. Ante-chamber to KING HENRY VIII's apartment.
Enter HUBERT
Such a house broke!
Tell me wherein have I offended most?
If the English had any apprehension, they would run away.
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
That sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue,
Set forth in your pursuit.
Yea.
With telling me of the mouldwarp and the ant,
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
If my sight fail not,
Thou art sure to lose, and, of that natural luck,
Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue
Holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her:
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
Go, one of you, find out the forester,
When they are thirsty, fools would fain have drink.
Accompany your hearts!
Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
But what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving
To lay the blame upon her own despair,
Sharp physic is the last: but, O you powers
Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?'
Wherefore was that cry?
Shall taste our mercy. Go and tell them so.
I understand you not, my lord.
You are most welcome home.
Non eget Mauri jaculis, nec arcu.'
By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o'
plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
His eyes are humbler than they used to be.
Yet fear not thou, but speak audaciously.'
And let us two devise to bring him thither.
have loved the Moor. Blessed pudding! Didst thou
Then by your side no bed-room me deny,
Exit
Nor when thy warlike father, like a child,
And undiscover'd come to me again
Sufficeth not that we are brought to Rome,
This I must say,
And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
EPILOGUE
New hatch'd to the woeful time: the obscure bird
Speak that,--
Drawing his sword
Like offices of pity. Sir, be prosperous
Fast bind, fast find,
I and my hundred knights.
Austria and France shoot in each other's mouth:
[Aside to NERISSA]  Thou mayst, I warrant.
[Standing forth]	My lord?
All the commerce that you have had with Troy
Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy,
to a leash of drawers, and can call them all by
Thy stomach, pleasure and thy golden sleep?
Marry, will I, and you shall help to put him i' the ground.
Ay, with my heart
That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
I'll be the first, sure.
any such sort, as they say, but in the way of
Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
What, ho! Abhorson! Where's Abhorson, there?
O God, that seest it, do not suffer it!
Exit
sometime like a lawyer, sometime like a philosopher,
Of thy sharp envy. Can no prayers pierce thee?
A rush, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin,
How now!
Yet this before my father's majesty--
Then let them all encircle him about
Enter PISANIO
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
Who, I? why, he'll answer nobody, he professes not
Of the unworthiest siege.
That you are well acquainted with yourself,
Not knowing what they fear, but full of fear:
Then, Jupiter, thou king of gods,
They are the books, the arts, the academes,
Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!
Talk us to silence.
Even in your armours, as you are address'd,
it: and, to stop up the displeasure he hath
preserve virginity. Loss of virginity is rational
husband is seldom from home, but she hopes there
How 'scaped I killing when I cross'd you so?
Whate'er falls more. We must to horse again.
I do not know the French for fer, and ferret, and firk.
Be she as foul as was Florentius' love,
His breeches cost him but a crown,
The first, Edward the Black Prince, Prince of Wales,
RICHARD
good will to the maid?
I hope I have: I am able now, methinks,
Look you, sir, such a one I was this present: is't
Happy in this, she is not yet so old
And you recount your sorrows to a stone.
Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away
Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
So he is. My lord that's gone made himself much
then come back to my master's as soon as I can.
Good expedition be my friend, and comfort
A knave, a rascal, an eater of broken meats, a
I know I am too mean to be your queen,
it: but, first, how the poor souls roared, and the
Your wit makes wise things foolish: when we greet,
If I discover'd not which way she was gone,
My duty on your hand.
is beaten black and blue, that you cannot see a
As I with sudden and extemporal speech
nothing doubt you have store of thieves,
his poll-axe sitting on a close-stool, will be given
I can see yet without spectacles and I see no such
From another one?
Goodness and he fill up one monument!
On you or yours,
the ministers.
And that their measures are as excellent.
The which my love and some necessity
Nor send you out o' the way?
Who seem'd my good protector, and, being here,
No din but snores the house about,
[Aside]  Ay, but, I fear me, with a hollow heart.--
Henceforward I am ever ruled by you.
Which gave advantage to an ancient soldier,
The ooze, to show what coast thy sluggish crare
So wilfully dost spurn, and force perforce
Buz in the people's ears, there nought hath pass'd,
people, who best know him, that I am altogether
Flower of this purple dye,
none but this.
a Dutchman today, a Frenchman to-morrow, or in the
promise of his life and in the highest compulsion of
the two learned men have compiled in praise of the
Fie, fie upon thee, strumpet!
The last fit of my greatness,--good your graces,
That trembles under his devouring paws,
O Margaret, Margaret, now thy heavy curse
For well I know he was unnatural.
players that I have seen play, and heard others
You have received your griefs, nor are they such
With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home,
O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
But kindness, nobler ever than revenge,
My nephew's trespass may be well forgot,
What need you tell me that? I think so, when I took
You are like something that--What country-woman?
seeming, Audrey:--as thus, sir. I did dislike the
way.
I would not my unhoused free condition
It's no matter for that, so she sleep not in her talk.
Let me alone with him.
Enter OSWALD
Not so, my lord.
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
I am hitherto your daughter: but here's my husband,
With the help of your good hands:
Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
If ever,--as that ever may be near,--
Ha! what sayest thou? Why, the end is, he hath
'Tis in the malice of mankind that he thus advises
She was false as water.
To take that course by your consent and voice,
Will do as if for surety. He holds me well,
So call the field to rest, and let's away,
I deserve it. How now! whither bear you this?
Some, that are mad if they behold a cat,
To the succession of new days this month:
My foes I do repute you every one,
Your office, sergeant, execute it.
We have yet many among us can gripe as hard as
That chambers will be safe.
I left no reverend person in this court,
And this her easy-held imprisonment
Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine.
Welcome, sir.
Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty?
The one is Murder, Rape is the other's name,
Think we King Harry strong,
He said that Proteus your son was meet,
will thaw.
ALONSO sleeps. Exit ARIEL
What handkerchief?
But truer stars did govern Proteus' birth
And on his son young John, who two hours since
What, John! Robert! John!
Before we will lay down our just-borne arms,
I will, captain: farewell.
tarry so long. But I would be loath to fall into
You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made,
Because in York this breeds suspicion:
Enter ORLANDO and JAQUES
Is this your perfectness? be gone, you rogue!
All swoln and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Hold little faith, though thou hast too much fear.
Mine hair be fixed on end, as one distract,
His body couched in a curious bed,
As may be holloa'd in thy treacherous ear
in company of the Marquis of Montferrat?
I, that am honest, I, that hold it sin
The rush that lies before him, cries, 'Fool Lepidus!'
should be thought a coward: but his few bad words
Herein your highness wrongs both them and me.
And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,
Are merely shadows to the unseen grief
And give to dust that is a little gilt
Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came,
Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
Till she herself confess it.
A dozen years, within which space she died
I thank you most for him.
In different pleasures. Pray you, let us in.
Exit
How now, sir? what are you reasoning with yourself?
This and these pearls to me sent Longaville:
call him forth.
That's sure of death without it, at once pluck out
These tidings will well comfort Cassius.
You say, you'll marry me, if I be willing?
Return so much, I have shook my head and wept,
To whom expressly I bring greeting too.
What do you think the hour?
Ay, sir.
When I was stamp'd, some coiner with his tools
Will with a trumpet 'twixt our tents and Troy
Before I be convict by course of law,
And last so long enough!
Triumphs for nothing and lamenting toys
Please it your majesty, I have done already:
O, that delightful engine of her thoughts
The cup of their deservings. O, see, see!
The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
So, I am free, yet would not so have been,
Enter PORTIA and LUCIUS
No, not a whit: I find you passing gentle.
And shall our quick blood, spirited with wine,
So feat, so nurse-like: let his virtue join
May give you thankful sacrifice.
There was a' gaming, there o'ertook in's rouse,
Were but a feigned friend to our proceedings:
Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
And that his lady mourns at his disease:
That do demonstrate thinly.
wise, if Don Worm, his conscience, find no
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
Music. Re-enter Cupid with a mask of Ladies  as Amazons, with lutes in their hands, dancing and playing
Is yet a maiden and an innocent hand,
I haste now to my setting: I shall fall
'tis not a maid, for she hath had gossips, yet 'tis
Then vail your stomachs, for it is no boot,
What guests were in her eyes, which parted thence,
most virtuous gentlewoman that ever nature had
That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.
without 'em?
I will go seek the king.
He's ta'en.
They took his head, and on the gates of York
Good God! why should they mock poor fellows thus?
The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
The seven-fold shield of Ajax cannot keep
the babe,--
He hath commanded me to go to bed,
But custom what they did begin
So,
uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters, my fair niece
Of their friends' gift?
their tribunes for ever. This lies glowing, I can
Let not your hate encounter with my love
And service to his majesty and you,
And weigh thee down to ruin, shame, and death!
A sun and moon, which kept their course,
And meeting here the other messenger,
To doom the offenders, whatsoever they be
Nay, you must forget that.
Be of good cheer,
How tame, when men and women are alone,
Exit Servant
Craved audience, and the hour, I think, is come
Sir, I have upon a high and pleasant hill
Sirrah, your lord and master's married, there's news
Yet with my nobler reason 'gaitist my fury
have no strength in measure, yet a reasonable
you should have been put together with so mortal a
But Barnardine must die this afternoon:
Now, Salisbury, for thee, and for the right
Yes, if I make my play.
Come, come you talk.
But I will chastise this high-minded strumpet.
Let him confess a truth.
How now, Thersites! what lost in the labyrinth of
shoulders, shall within this hour be off, thy
I will not love myself. Do you not love me?
Villain, what hast thou done?
Of as great size. Ween you of better luck,
Hath cut her throat already. No, 'tis slander,
These people at our back.
And yet my sky shall not want.
That plotted thus our glory's overthrow?
This 'once again,' but that your highness pleased,
Enter the conspirators, CASSIUS, CASCA, DECIUS BRUTUS, CINNA, METELLUS CIMBER, and TREBONIUS
Had I but seen thy picture in this plight,
Look ye yonder, niece, is't not a gallant man too,
This shall be done, good father, presently.
lief you would tell me of a mess of porridge.
That's he that was Othello: here I am.
The more I have, for both are infinite.
Ever beloved and loving may his rule be!
Here, good my glass, take this for telling true:
What is in Silvia's face, but I may spy
That they lack, for if their heads had any
charitably dispose of any thing, when blood is their
There, sir, stop:
Exeunt
From high to low throughout, that whoso please
Prithee, if thou lovest me, tell me.
I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee,
To AEmilius
All this we swear.
that I might water an ass at it! I had rather be a
badness in himself.
But to her love concerneth us to add
youth of the city?
Upon mine honour,--
Necessity will make us all forsworn
but an islander, that hath lately suffered by a
Commend my best obedience to the queen:
Be quiet then as men should be,
That's he indeed.
Past question, for thou seest it will not curl by nature.
Is't come to this? Well, well.
Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger
Pardon the frankness of my mirth, if I answer you
Inquire me out some mean-born gentleman,
of no one good quality worthy your lordship's
Thou art perfect then, our ship hath touch'd upon
That so I may, by this device, at least
That they devour their reason and scarce think
For I will board her, though she chide as loud
But being charged, we will be still by land,
Me too, let me go thither.
[Aside]	'Tis Butts,
And yet enrich'd it too: she gave it me, and said
I do desire thee, even from a heart
Make raging battery upon shores of flint.'
How probable I do not know--that Marcius,
I have eyed with best regard and many a time
fall into Charybdis, your mother: well, you are
SCENE VI. Fields near Dover.
Finding it so inclined.
I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Made to write 'whore' upon? What committed!
Still so cruel?
I do not know: friends all but now, even now,
Thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice.
And smell of calumny. I have begun,
vouching--and upon warrant of bloody
Rumour it abroad
I charge thee use her well, even for my charge,
Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
Exeunt MARK ANTONY, EROS, Captains, and Soldiers
Could such inordinate and low desires,
That ever penury, in contempt of man,
I grieve to hear what torments you endured,
to make one there.
To say the truth, true and not true.
It hath happened all as I would have had it, save
Than gilt his trophy: the breasts of Hecuba,
Heart, once be stronger than thy continent,
And told me that by water I should die:
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
The many to them longing, have put off
Why, sir, they were nothing but about Mistress Anne
What! how! how!
But self-affrighted tremble at his sin.
For there was never yet fair woman but she made
In those foundations which I build upon,
I will not reason what is meant hereby,
Gaoler, take him to thy custody.
That which I owe is lost, but if you please
E'en so, a great deal of your wit, too, lies in your
That sometimes savours nobly. But hear me this:
Witnessing storms to come, woe and unrest:
Divinest patroness, and midwife gentle
That cannot say as much. This is a subtle whore,
Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your
thee, I have been blown out of your gates with
Shall mistress be of it, save I alone.
We were dissever'd: hastily lead away.
How I may bear me here: my prime request,
You'ld venture an emballing: I myself
For though fond nature bids us an lament,
We are no tyrant, but a Christian king,
Let them alone awhile, and then open the door.
What ceremony else?
Good sir, give me good fortune.
Were you sworn to the duke, or to the deputy?
Sir, to satisfy you in what I have said,
But, after all this fooling, I would not have it so.
This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke,
Let no fair be kept in mind
Crowned with faith and constant loyalty.
Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover,
The worthiness of praise distains his worth,
My master, Sir John, is come in at your back-door,
tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her
To understand my purposes aright:
have spoken truer than you purposed.
But the law will not allow it, Pompey, nor it shall
What, stain'd with blood!
How then might your prayers move!
The rather for I have some sport in hand
With some suspicion. I will weep for thee,
'Imprimis: She can fetch and carry.' Why, a horse
What's to be done?
He acts thy greatness in: and when he speaks,
That undergo this charge? who else but I,
peradventures shall tell you another tale, if
Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms.
SCENE II. The palace.
Sir Valour dies, cries 'O, enough, Patroclus,
Nor men nor money hath he to make war.
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
Her father is Baptista Minola,
You have show'd a tender fatherly regard,
Was there none else in Rome to make a stale,
SCENE I. The same. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA
By calmness or by absence: all's in anger.
When rather from our acts we them derive
And on the sixth to turn thy hated back
You adopt your policy, how is it less or worse,
Ransomless here we set our prisoners free:
if this be not a lawful case for me to leave his
which they trick up with new-tuned oaths: and what
Sit you too.
What he hath lost noble Macbeth hath won.
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON bearing off the Nurse's body
I send it through the rivers of your blood,
O, look, Titinius, look, the villains fly!
the alehouse. What miserable praise hast thou for
And serve it thus to me that love it not?
By her is poisoned, she hath confess'd it.
As little as a crow, or less, ere left
Re-enter DESDEMONA, attended
Shall be wiped out in the next parliament
father will hence to-night.
SCENE II. OLIVIA's house.
Exit
Enter another Messenger
Nay, conceive me, conceive me, sweet coz: what I do
But fare you well: perforce I must confess
And being seated, and domestic broils
Even by my god I swear to thee I will.
By this encompassment and drift of question
Were then my fellows, now they are my men.
Ay, it stands so that I may hardly
The Duke of Suffolk, William de la Pole.
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
That died by law for murder of our brother,
Say, if my father render fair return,
I talk of that, that know it.
A will that bars the title of thy son.
Fellow, give place, here is no longer stay.
Exeunt
'Twould be too tedious to repeat,
To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:
To slander music any more than once.
A little from this ground.
Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?
As now I reap at thy too cruel hand!
do yours, for upholding the nice fashion of your
I reason'd with a Frenchman yesterday,
I will not shame myself to give you this.
to consign to.
Prithee, speak:
your lordship.
Which rottenness can lend nature! such boil'd stuff
I'll watch as long for you then. Approach,
Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shown,
Having my freedom, boast of nothing else
All the foul terrors in dark-seated hell--
If, by the tribunes' leave, and yours, good people,
I did present him with the Paris balls.
Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff?
I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
The sweetness of affiance! Show men dutiful?
Tongues spit their duties out, and cold hearts freeze
compliment, and men are only turned into tongue, and
Thou gavest to Cassio.
will clog the foot of a flea, I'll eat the rest of
The wood of Birnam.
For Angelo,
Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark, for we'll
The great contention of the sea and skies
How these were they that made away his brother.
'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
And promise them success and victory.
I shall obey him.
As those should do that had deserved his hate,
Exit
Good faith, and when I met this holy man,
God save the king! although I be not he,
What, Brutus!
And, when it bows, stands up. Thou art left, Marcius:
In the devotion of a subject's love,
I pray thee, Launce, an if thou seest my boy,
While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne.
Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son?
He was the first that ever bore arms.
They laboured to plant the rightful heir,
Would be even mortal to me.
Be gone! I will not hear thy vain excuse,
Nay, rather, every tedious stride I make
Enter Old Lady, LOVELL following
For each true word, a blister! and each false
imagine me too unhurtful an opposite. But indeed I
Cause they take vengeance of such kind of men.
Have taken sanctuary: the tender prince
With tomboys hired with that self-exhibition
As we would hear an oracle.
And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
Come, Stanley, shall we go?
I do not desire you to please me, I do desire you to
O yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face,
He that helps him take all my outward worth.
Revolted Mortimer!
Those that Macbeth hath slain.
You i' the camlet, get up o' the rail,
The queen, sir, very oft importuned me
When are you married, madam?
Most noble! in the presence of thy corse?
inclination, after his undressed, unpolished,
Wrinkles Apollo's, and makes stale the morning.
up at the door of a brothel-house for the sign of
And see his shipwreck and his commonweal's.
Like to a dismal clangour heard from far,
Upon the innocent and aweless throne:
is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain
Macbeth does murder sleep', the innocent sleep,
That you might kill your stomach on your meat
You tender to her, that you in all obey her,
cunning of it, I found it thrown in at the
perform it.
of, and void of all profanation in the world that
Or keeping what is sworn, you will prove fools.
Shallow, and here young Master Slender, that
Doing the execution and the act
late, she did praise my leg being cross-gartered,
And shall, or some of us will smart for it.
Else might the world convince of levity
Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings,
And for what cause thou camest to Ephesus.
Do or undo, as if ourself were here.
Princes and noble lords,
Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK, TALBOT, EXETER, the Governor, of Paris, and others
And that shall be the day, whene'er it lights,
To the fairness of my power.
My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
from the world! What corruption in this life, that
mouth, and was speechless.
And of a dragon and a finless fish,
That done, laugh well at me.
My father hath a reason for't.
If my shirt were bloody, then to shift it. Have I hurt him?
Wrong not yourself, then, noble Helicane,
Where there's no profit. I prithee, to our rock,
Heaven stops the nose at it and the moon winks,
And thou, thrice-crowned queen of night, survey
I trod upon a worm against my will,
We do salute you, Duke of Burgundy,
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
or I'll none, virtuous, or I'll never cheapen her,
To CAMILLO
Here cousin:
So deep suspicion, where all faith was meant.
Great marshal to Henry the Sixth
But undergo this flight, make for Sicilia,
That we have tried the utmost of our friends,
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby,
I'll use to carry thee out of this place.
'Tis, 'tis his fortune.
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto:
That hang'd and drawn and quartered, there should be
Why, then to thee, thou silver treasure-house,
Run after that same peevish messenger,
What, art thou afraid?
bolder to chide you for yours.
That which in mean men we intitle patience
goes,--mark you that, but if the water come to him
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
thought any such matter: God is my witness, I am
Which, when I saw rehearsed, I must confess,
I was forbid it.
Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.
Hold, sir, or I'll throw your dagger o'er the house.
Good my liege,--
traverse, to see thee here, to see thee there, to
twinkled on my bastardizing. Edgar--
not me, nor I him: he hath neither Latin, French,
How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green!
That play with all infirmities for gold
No, sir, the worse.
The treacherous manner of his mournful death
set out for London, a man of my lord cardinal's, by
With many children by you: if, in the course
And sheathe for lack of sport: let us but blow on them,
If the matter of this paper be certain, you have
at the temple, and there, before the whole
This, as you say, suggested
And it shall be as all the ocean,
That writes them all alike: and so of men.
Why, I pray you, is not pig great? the pig, or the
course for England: of them I have much to tell
Stand you a while aloof, Cesario,
Item, you sent a large commission
As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true,
The best way is to slander Valentine
[Within]  Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford! here's
O, look upon me, sir,
Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly.
Nor Cymbeline dreams that they are alive.
This wretch hath part confess'd his villany:
Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
You are too young, too happy, and too good,
Your breath first kindled the dead coal of wars
Harry, that prophesied thou shouldst be king,
Their money out of hope they may believe,
Exit
How now, Malvolio!
Jeweller: We'll bear, with your lordship.
Be that thou know'st thou art, and then thou art
No, truly, but in friendly recompense.
hast the harvest out of thine own report.
ANTIPHOLUS
Why, this is strange. Go call the abbess hither.
If I go to him, with my armed fist I'll pash him o'er the face.
The hope and expectation of thy time
Dread lord, the commons send you word by me,
Many a morning hath he there been seen,
And since that time it is eleven years,
For do we must what force will have us do.
The man I am.
And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head,
That eye my daughter lent her: 'tis most true.
Prithee, have done,
Though Cloten then but young, you see, not wore him
That blood which owed the breadth of all this isle,
In this place we left them:
out heresy. I did converse this quondam day with
The root of his opinion, which is rotten
Such to-be-pitied and o'er-wrested seeming
How say you, Signior Gremio?
The seasons' difference, as the icy fang
ACT II
discretion: there is no man hath a virtue that he
Hath Cassius lived
Why, this is the world's soul, and just of the
A private man in Athens: this for him.
That you behold the while. Your guests are coming:
His health was never better worth than now.
I rather think
Then is my sovereign slain?
To show myself a glass.
me if she did nod, and I say, 'Ay.'
Exeunt DUKE OF YORK and QUEEN
SCENE I. The frontiers of Mantua. A forest.
By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
The tyrant's people on both sides do fight,
So should we save a valiant gentleman
The while I'll place you: then the boy shall sing,
Show'd thy dear mother any courtesy,
The name of valour.
From thence to England, where I hope ere long
Professes to persuade,--the king his son's alive,
But that he speaks.
Drum afar off
Your grace, that fed my country with your corn,
We'll hear no more.
Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers.
Peace! Here comes my sister, reading: stand aside.
What he requests of us. Good Diomed,
Go you with me, uncle of Exeter.
And drive away the vulgar from the streets:
If I know this, know all the world besides,
Now hear me speak with a prophetic spirit,
though they can outstrip men, they have no wings to
For all the water in the ocean
His pettish lunes, his ebbs, his flows, as if
I am the caitiff that do hold him to't,
It is the quality o' the climate.
And, by that virtue, no man dare accuse you.
My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress,
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
That never may ill office, or fell jealousy,
Rogues, hence, avaunt! vanish like hailstones, go,
I must obey: his art is of such power,
And, by despairing, shouldst thou stand excused,
His own impatience
He should have struck, not spoke, or that these pirates,
Contemning Rome, he has done all this, and more,
man to labour in his vocation.
You've strange serpents there.
have her, Master Brook, Master Brook, you shall
If dere be one or two, I shall make-a the turd.
down together, I plucked this glove from his helm:
Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much,
Exit Sergeant, attended
the curses he shall have, the tortures he shall
For thine own future safety.
Yet thus far we are one in fortunes: both
That, from the sense of all civility,
SCENE V. The same.
bricklayer.
The old priest of Saint Luke's church is at your
Exeunt
Kind souls, what, weep you when you but behold
That lies enclosed in this trunk which you
To Pepin or Clotharius, they keep state so.
O' the jewel house,
Go you before, and I will follow you.
Perchance some single vantages you took.
stuff a rabbit, and so may you, sir: and so, adieu,
I pray you then, in love and dear alliance,
Nay, before God, Hal, if Percy be alive, thou get'st
And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee. Away!
And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,
There is no certain princess that appears,
sir, will show whereuntil it doth amount: for mine
Of some such thing?
Then never dream on infamy, but go.
any man to answer it that breaks his band, one that
Is't even so?
O notable strumpet! Cassio, may you suspect
And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow.
Come, therefore, and to Thasos send his body:
I would they were in Afric both together,
Clapper-de-claw! vat is dat?
meddle with no tradesman's matters, nor women's
Go to him, Dolabella, bid him yield,
So methinks:
How you speak!
He lends out money gratis and brings down
Enter a Herald
what verse for it? what instance for it? Let me see:
All men, I hope, live so.
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground,
And all eyes else dead coals! Fear thou no wife,
He words me, girls, he words me, that I should not
Therefore, my lord, go travel for a while,
sighs, and conjure thee to pardon Rome, and thy
DON
Good my lord,
But not a thousand marks between you both.
Neither.
So be my grave my peace, as here I give
Devise the fittest time and safest way
In her chamber, making a sermon of continency to her,
crutches ere he was born desire yet their life to
Enter AUFIDIUS with the second Servingman
What is the reason of this terrible summons?
For these known evils, but to give me leave,
When this is known, then to divide the times:
Call it by what you will, the day is yours,
Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum,
heaven, here's no place for you maids:' so deliver
Then in the midst a tearing groan did break
And it pierces and sharpens the stomach. Come,
Enter KING, frowning on them, takes his seat
'Tis a strange serpent.
Withhold thine indignation, mighty heaven,
Of sighs, of groans, of sorrow and of teen!
To die with lengthen'd shame.
Fare you well.
consider your music the better: if it do not, it is
I must be round with him, now he comes from hunting.
Have at it then, by leave.
myself like one that I am not acquainted withal,
I tell you 'tis not very well. I will make myself
the peace, if I see a sword out, my finger itches to
Grant I may ever love, and rather woo
I have not that alacrity of spirit,
lion, and thou for a true prince. But, by the Lord,
If thou dost break her virgin-knot before
To the shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bow'd,
Let's shut our gates and sleep: manhood and honour
Untouch'd, or slightly handled, in discourse
white, and cry 'mum,' she cries 'budget,' and by
O my Parolles, they have married me!
To stop affliction, let him take his haste,
With signs of war about his aged neck:
Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.
What, none?
Agreed: I'll to yond corner.
And to him in his barge with fervor hies.
He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
And melt ere they molest! Here lies your brother,
And am so near the lack of charity--
the Welshman with my cheese, an Irishman with my
Thy better must.
And with dead cheeks advise thee to desist
My name hath touch'd your ears it is Menenius.
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs
fool hath much pined away.
A stranger to those most imperial looks
knew it was Crab, and goes me to the fellow that
Well said, brazen-face! hold it out. Come forth, sirrah!
Alas, who knows?
It becomes thy oath full well,
But 'tis no wit to go.
understand thus much English, canst thou love me?
He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes.
Soldiers, not thieves.
The knowledge of themselves.
The worthiest men have done't?
'Twas not my purpose, thus to beg a kiss:
Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood,
So can I name his faults,--
Agree between you, I will spare my hand.
The Fairies sing
Lead off this ground, and let's make further search
And force them with a constancy, the cardinal
The lustre of the better yet to show,
What think you of it?
lingered here by some accident: wherein none can be
light, the purse too light, being drawn of
scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the
Is Bridgenorth: and, Harry, you shall march
The provost, he shall bear them, whose contents
notwithstanding, Master Fenton, I'll be sworn on a
Nay, good troth.
I pray thee, gentle keeper, stay by me,
Is in one mile: if they have measured many,
Thou canst not speak too much, I have deserved
Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and Servingmen
Which seem'd too much enkindled, and withal
And I will die a hundred thousand deaths
And tell me who is victor, York or Warwick?
And with this hateful liquor temper it,
No: the princess hearing of her mother's statue,
Must be half-workers? We are all bastards,
Protect mine innocence, or I fall into
We drink this health to you.
A benefit in this change, but if you seek
How camest thou in this pickle?
Do.
Dry up in her the organs of increase,
A blessed soul doth in Elysium.
As from the body of contraction plucks
'Tis to be fear'd they all will follow him.
Come, I'll go see this Italian: what I have lost
eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio
Robin Starveling, the tailor.
Re-enter Bawd
Breathe foul contagious darkness in the air.
were not subject to a beast? and what a beast art
Harp not on that string, madam, that is past.
Aside to her
Lavinia, how say you?
When he doth run his course. Antonius!
I do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot,
That he should come about your royal person
Make use of thy salt hours: season the slaves
I know it well, sir, you always end ere you begin.
In the remembrance of so fair a dream.
And let her speak of me before her father:
Either thou wilt die, by God's just ordinance,
ANTIPHOLUS
Lord of our presence, Angiers, and of you.
Without a sudden calm, will overset
Now, by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum, a sweet
with working.
But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
Enter a Servant
Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle lambs,
Therefore present to her--as sometime Margaret
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
Numbering our Ave-Maries with our beads?
better plight for a lender than you are: the which
And of his old experience the oily darling,
Bear with him, Brutus, 'tis his fashion.
have the first choice. Follow me, girls.
A dangerous rhyme, master, against the reason of
Plant those that have revolted in the van,
When noble Pericles shall demand his child?
It may be so, my lord.
agrees the devil and thee about thy soul, that thou
With your theme, I could
He is wit's pedler, and retails his wares
Though he divide the realm and give thee half,
honourable virtues.
Then stand with us.
To such exsufflicate and blown surmises,
He weeds the corn and still lets grow the weeding.
'Come, sweet Audrey:
But will you hear? the king is my love sworn.
To lay his gay comparisons apart,
To raise a present sum: therefore go forth,
Of war-mark'd footmen, leave unexecuted
But let's about it.
I think there is not in the world either malice or
Whilst by a slave, no gentler than my dog,
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
Shook as the earth did quake,
Why, therefore fire, for I have caught extreme cold.
I might have saved her, now she's gone for ever!
will make it my quarrel.
Ah, Silvia, Silvia!
aloud to him!
Her part, poor soul! seeming as burdened
I care not if thou dost for me as much.
not strike the old woman.
The heir of Cymbeline and Britain, who
Like to the empress' Moor, therefore I kill'd him.
Burns under feigned ashes of forged love
made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.
Will triumph o'er my person, which I weigh not,
Cure her of that.
And so they are: alas, that they are so,
When those that gave the thane of Cawdor to me
For, by the dreadful Pluto, if thou dost not,
Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
Thus part we rich in sorrow, parting poor.
Where but even now with strange and several noises
Of you, my sons, and till this present hour
God be wi' you, sir.
thy pocket but tavern-reckonings, memorandums of
Or tie my treasure up in silken bags,
Enter Senator, with papers in his hand
Ay, madam, well, for I was bred and born
SCENE II. France. Plains in Anjou.
In her strong toil of grace.
The cockerel.
That I have reconciled your friends and you.
What, dear sir,
My maid Nerissa and myself meantime
Keep Hector company an hour or two.
Boult, take her away, use her at thy pleasure:
Were it not good your grace could fly to heaven?
Should go so general current through the world.
Obey it on all cause.
From Troy and Troilus.
And do submit me to your highness' mercy.
Interpretation will misquote our looks,
of Leda. O omnipotent Love! how near the god drew
pray you, what thinks he of our estate?
Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as
Such as I am, I come from Antony:
The aweless lion could not wage the fight,
Or by his foe surprised at unawares:
Gave wings to my propension and cut off
Her mother is the lady of the house,
Madam, there is alighted at your gate
Say 'tis not so, a province I will give thee,
That time of both this truth shall ne'er convince,
Think on my words.
And all to all.
Now, fellows, you are welcome.
confidence than her reputation: and, to bar your
With walking once about the quadrangle,
bill, give me thy mete-yard, and spare not me.
And did not she herself revile me there?
[To IMOGEN]  You are not well: remain here in the cave,
Lovers and madmen have such seething brains,
To speak your deeds, not little of his care
If Hercules and Lichas play at dice
Some griefs are med'cinable, that is one of them,
And, good lieutenant, I think you think I love you.
In blood of princes, and their wounded steeds
More moving-delicate and full of life,
Whose valour plucks dead lions by the beard,
As, first, good company, good wine, good welcome,
She, Claudio, that you wrong'd, look you restore.
To the gold
'Faith, tell me now in earnest, how came Falstaff's
How ill this taper burns! Ha! who comes here?
To rid the realm of this pernicious blot?
How goes the world, that I am thus encounter'd
And tender me, forsooth, affection,
That I'll straight do, and, knowing myself again,
methought I had,--but man is but a patched fool, if
Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt:
painted cloths.
And so am I.
Beats in this hollow prison of my flesh,
Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep.
If now 'twere fit to do't. At the first sight
For our advantage, therefore hear us first.
Should ask, if Katharina should be his wife,
There is no tongue hath power to curse him right.
In graces and in qualities of breeding,
If thou didst know me, thou wouldest talk with me.
We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled
He therefore sends you, meeter for your spirit,
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS FORD
And pardon, father, for I knew not thee!
Appointed to direct these fair designs.
And she lies buried with her ancestors,
As thou art tender to't.
She loves me, sure, the cunning of her passion
Here's the challenge, read it: warrant there's
When men are unprepared and look not for it.
deceive it,
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
all power from the people and to pluck from them
Make you a wholesome answer, my wit's diseased: but,
He falls forward
My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
Come, Margaret, God, our hope, will succor us.
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now
Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?
My lord?
Great. Pompey, you are partly a bawd, Pompey,
He would receive it? he and his physicians
And here the maiden, sleeping sound,
Of nature be corrupted through affection,
Unsavoury news! but how made he escape?
But by bad courses may be understood
'The fairest, sweet'st, and best lies here,
Believe me, I am not, I tell thee true.
Madam, be patient: as I was cause
And tell thy king I do not seek him now,
Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.
The effect doth operate another way.
Help, son! help, Signior Baptista!
Lewis marry Blanch! O boy, then where art thou?
reason why thou shouldst be so superfluous to demand
His glorious deeds for my indignities.
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
exchequers to me, they shall be my East and West
Ay, to the proof, as mountains are for winds,
Know you not, master, to some kind of men
Himself! no, he's not himself: would a' were
Brother of England, you blaspheme in this.
Stand forth, Lysander: and my gracious duke,
Have stood against the world, now lies he there.
For Oberon is passing fell and wrath,
'Faith, that's with watching, 'twill away again:
Your grace may enter now.
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
But theirs is sweetened with the hope to have
That caves and womby vaultages of France
Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be,
Of a glad father compass thee about!
But wherefore could not I pronounce 'Amen'?
Ay, boy, it's for love.
Shouldst have kept one to thyself, for I mean to
Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.
Stay, my Lord Talbot, for my lady craves
With fingers long, small, white as milk,
Exit
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
As well wherein 'tis precious of itself
She stripp'd it from her arm, I see her yet,
Why, headstrong liberty is lash'd with woe.
O! O! O!
Obedient as the scabbard. What is here?
Like very sanctity, she did approach
Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly,
you're drunk.
Should I, in these my borrow'd flaunts, behold
good dishes,--
Marcus Andronicus, so I do ally
Well, say. Peace, ho!
Cicero is dead,
The seas and winds, old wranglers, took a truce
A woeful pageant have we here beheld.
That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale
And go indeed, having so good a mean.
be I will call upon you anon, for some advantage to yourself.
If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied.
Exit
to-morrow: I have a jest to execute that I cannot
If that you love Prince Pericles, forbear.
But, room, fairy! here comes Oberon.
meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.
than a monkey: I will weep for nothing, like Diana
And not have strew'd thy grave.
SCENE IV. York. The ARCHBISHOP'S palace.
less to you.
Rating myself at nothing, you shall see
Post thou to Salisbury
Only in this disguise I think't no sin
Till all these mischiefs be return'd again
The same,
Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles,
Then, since this earth affords no joy to me,
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
After summer merrily.
Enter DUKE OF YORK
Ay, by my faith, they shall not be changed yet.
Is prisoner to the bishop here, at whose hands
He seizes her
I know thee now: how farest thou, soldier?
coxcomb? in your own conscience, now?
To my poor cell, where you shall take your rest
But meet him now, and, be it in the morn,
Myself were mudded in that oozy bed
Has only sent his present occasion now, my lord,
As the free elements. And then for her
Ass, I doubt not.
Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard:
Beating your officers, cursing yourselves,
Yet have I heard,--O, could I find it now!--
Come apace, good Audrey: I will fetch up your
I'll go to him, and undertake to bring him
of earnest.
And at that time he got his wife with child:
From all dishonesty he can: in this,
And 'tis no little reason bids us speed,
And think you now are all in Mytilene.
Equal with wondering: what of her ensues
If that be right which Warwick says is right,
Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
Is set afire by thine own ignorance,
Or my life imply her any danger?
A fortnight and odd days.
Enter Priest
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
Master Brook, that ever governed frenzy. I will tell
I smell the trick on't.
Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails,
'Tis not a visitation framed, but forced
That which cries 'Thus thou must do, if thou have it,
gives thee better counsel, give me mine again: I
darkling stand
This forwardness
This was strange chance
And with ridiculous and awkward action,
Pursuit would be but vain.
We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast again,
I should be glad to hear such news as this
They should be good men, their affairs as righteous:
Shall rust upon my weapon, till thy blood,
Exit FALSTAFF
Come, to our flock.
Foretell the ending of mortality.
If he took you a box o' the ear, you might have your
'Twill not be lost.
Your servant, princes. Good my lord of Rome,
Our country manners give our betters way.
In the corrupted currents of this world
That my master was? no, forsooth: my master said
Of Alcibiades the approaches wild,
Are you not well?
Or be a known friend, 'gainst his highness' pleasure,
We shall have old swearing
And what not done, that thou hast cause to rue,
For both hast thou, and both become the grave.
have spoke the least:
Besides, the sore terms we stand upon with the gods
Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells,
Re-enter POINS
That e'er I watch'd and the most heaviest.
Hail to your grace!
And calls them brothers, friends and countrymen.
Thy lips rot off!
Where think'st thou he is now? Stands he, or sits he?
I have not seen you long: how goes the world?
Here is the steed, we the caparison:
Lysimachus our Tyrian ship espies,
It is your fault that I have loved Posthumus:
Praising her when I am dumb.
shoe trod upon God's ground and his earth, in my
Yet I'll move him
Write me a prologue, and let the prologue seem to
Whether the tyranny be in his place,
this garment through the rough seams of the waters:
We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
Enter LUCIUS, IACHIMO, the Soothsayer, and other  Roman Prisoners, guarded, POSTHUMUS LEONATUS behind, and IMOGEN
It was both impious and unnatural
[Behind]  What, ho! help, help, help!
thee for pity.
Who's there? what's the matter? will you beat
He is attended with a desperate train,
And think it but a minute spent in sport.
ACT V
Like to a little kingdom, suffers then
I know the shape of's leg: this is his hand,
I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the
Imprison'd and in scarcity of friends,
To fill the mouth of deep defiance up
Sauf votre honneur, de elbow.
mine, twice or thrice in that last article.
Lucilius' Servant	Not yet.
He's a bear indeed, that lives like a lamb. You two
Pardon me, sweet one, even for the vows
Here's Mistress Quickly, sir, to speak with you.
This candle burns not clear: 'tis I must snuff it,
heavy: ask my Lady Beatrice else, here she comes.
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
And twangling Jack, with twenty such vile terms,
You fight in justice: then, in God's name, lords,
Despise me, if I do not. Three great ones of the city,
ANTIPHOLUS
The gunner and his mate
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
and let 'em win the work: the devil was amongst
Stand where the torch may not discover us.
Sometimes he talks as if Duke Humphrey's ghost
To the sharp'st kind of justice. Please you sir,
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
I make bold to press with so little preparation upon
Devoured by the unexpected flood.
fair, or I'll   never look on her, mild, or come not
Full of crusadoes: and, but my noble Moor
Thou dost not speak so much.
Have I not pawn'd to you my majesty?
masters! fly, masters! Help!
And he my husband best of all affects.
Commotion in the winds! frights, changes, horrors,
No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
[Aside]  All will revolt from me, and turn to him.
reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal
Good Helicane, that stay'd at home,
M, O, A, I, this simulation is not as the former: and
Marcus, unknit that sorrow-wreathen knot:
use me with estimation.
the carpets laid, and every thing in order?
As I have spoken for you all my best
Do you hear, masters? do you hear?
how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he, though his
That majesty, to keep decorum, must
they are for the town's end, to beg during life.
But come yourself with speed to us again,
Do, cuff him soundly, but never draw thy sword.
Shall I for love speak treason to thy face?
must your daughter and her gentlewomen carry. The
O, do not learn her wrath, she taught it thee,
Enter PANTHINO
it to that end: though soft-conscienced men can be
I mean to prove this lady's courtesy.
It were a fault to snatch words from my tongue.
Bestow it at your pleasure, and believe,
As he regards his aged father's life.
But that the sea, mounting to the welkin's cheek,
When shrill-tongued Fulvia scolds. The messengers!
Might you not know she would do as she has done,
To nature none more bound, his training such,
I thank thee, Hector
digestion, why hast thou not served thyself in to
Only that the laws of England may come out of your mouth.
I see we still did meet each other's man,
His looks are full of peaceful majesty,
So rarely kind, are as interpreters
observed: and we are strong in custom. Therefore
ACT III
Best draw my sword: and if mine enemy
But, noble as he is, look where he comes.
Before he should thus stoop to the herd, but that
Strikes him
Please your highness, posts
butterfly: and when he caught it, he let it go
I cannot do't without counters. Let me see, what am
A pudency so rosy the sweet view on't
It is, you lie, you lie:
Let pale-faced fear keep with the mean-born man,
The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me
In being so blest! There may be in the cup
a fool to make me merry than experience to make me
the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue
plucked geese, played truant and whipped top, I knew
O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido, and
Or stole it, rather.
Will maintain it with some little cost.
But, bear-like, I must fight the course. What's he
Exit
SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.
Unquestion'd welcome and undoubted blest.
Upon a barren mountain and still winter
Well, say I am, why should proud summer boast
Unless our halberds did shut up his passage.
Old fools are babes again, and must be used
And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?
Than if thou never hadst deserved our hate.
not, hold your tongues.
That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts,
no wool, the cat no perfume. Ha! here's three on
I pray you, mar no more trees with writing
Exit
look, a mouse! Peace, peace, this piece of toasted
Unless thou couldst put on some other shape,
The Earl of Salisbury craveth supply,
Hast sold me to this novice, and my heart
Come, vial.
Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
Madam, as thereto sworn by your command,
Caesar's will?
It was i' the offering!
Orlando, my liege, the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.
I am most joyful, madam, such good dreams
case, William?
his rope-tricks. I'll tell you what sir, an she
Ay, touch him, there's the vein.
To foreign passages, and in the end,
You'll kiss me hard and speak to me as if
yet, for aught I see, they are as sick that surfeit
Say, Henry, shall I have my right, or no?
Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
Flourish. Exeunt
And soar with them above a common bound.
I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement,
Come, Kate, we'll to bed.
Thy dukedom I resign and do entreat
If I prove honey-mouth'd let my tongue blister
A banish'd traitor.
I say, this house is as dark as ignorance, though
I fell with curses.
wicked. I must give over this life, and I will give
These boys are boys of ice, they'll none have her:
The manner of their taking may appear
but by a metaphor.
Hence, and bestow your luggage where you found it.
Enter PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA
Let him approach.
Enter CLARENCE, guarded, and BRAKENBURY
Thus must I from the smoke into the smother,
All there is thine.
Hack'd one another in the sides of Caesar:
Will do his bidding. Brutus, come apace,
A sorry breakfast for my lord protector.
No, not I,
As prouder livers do.
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
ANTIPHOLUS
why I do call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
The honour, sir, that flames in your fair eyes,
However he puts on this tardy form.
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie,
have fortunes coming upon you. Mark me: you must
Knights, from my daughter this I let you know,
Thou art past the tyrant's stroke,
It is an heretic that makes the fire,
Come at my heels, Jack Rugby.
An honour! were not I thine only nurse,
in his jealousy till now.
There shall no figure at such rate be set
mines? have the pioneers given o'er?
After my flight. Now go we in content
And of how coward a spirit.
In music, letters, who hath gain'd
The devil to his fellow and delight
On your displeasure's peril and on mine,
A goodly city is this Antium. City,
That thou mightst repossess the crown in peace,
till then, sit thee down, sorrow!
As in the prizer: 'tis mad idolatry
And Rosaline they call her: ask for her,
Exeunt
knows himself to be a fool.' The heathen
Here in the churchyard, yet I will adventure.
I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
Your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice.
I hope not, I had as lief bear so much lead.
Here comes a messenger. What news?
And to such men of gravity and learning,
That chair stand empty: but we all are men,
How can you say to me, I am a king?
et devin deesse?
he is indeed Justice.
Who made the Dauphin and the French to stoop
in the hatching,
Hortensio, hark:
False, we have given thee faces.
This slave-like habit? and these looks of care?
Good fellows all,
Is not so estimable, profitable neither,
Show me which way.
Do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
My faculties nor person, yet will be
To wage against thy enemies, nor fear to lose it,
To tell us this.
four of his blind brothers and sisters went to it.
To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf,
Who, hearing of our Marcius' banishment,
The word, 'Quod me alit, me extinguit.'
Whereon this month I have been hammering.
At nine i' the morning here we'll meet again.
Resides not in that man that does not think,--
That fell away have entertainment, but
Calmly, good Laertes.
not take too much for him, he shall pay for him that
You nymphs, call'd Naiads, of the windring brooks,
plague upon such backing! give me them that will
Heard you all this, her women?
And almost broke my heart with extreme laughter:
But, say, it is my humour: is it answer'd?
The head of Cade! Great God, how just art Thou!
My thanks and duty are your majesty's.
Nor moody beggars, starving for a time
Of youth and ignorance, both my revenge and hate
The time to come.
On me, and you, and mine, and yours for this!
Look ye draw home enough, and 'tis there straight.
Say what you will, sir, but I know what I know,
Our lands, our lives and all are Bolingbroke's,
A Roman now adopted happily,
It shall be eased, if France can yield relief.
Calls my lord?
Exit
Tickled with good success, disdains the shadow
So that from point to point now have you heard
I prophesied, if a gallows were on land,
Rowland de Boys, he was my father, and he is thrice
And thou, Hortensio, with thy loving widow,
sequent to your whipping: you would answer very well
Enter TIMON, in a rage, FLAMINIUS following
Were it to call King Edward's widow sister,
[Reading]  'To my Lord Protector!' Are your
recover them. As proper men as ever trod upon
For though it have holp madmen to their wits,
Alarum. Enter BRUTUS and MESSALA
In such a point of weight, so near mine honour,--
Who hath most fortunately been inform'd
Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca.
I leave your highness. Grandam, I will pray,
Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world,
For mine own part, unfold a dangerous speech,
answered her, my very visor began to assume life and
I did not see him since.
In awe of such a thing as I myself.
Then shall we have a match. I have letters sent me
Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb,
So, proceed you.
A spirit, a spirit: he says his name's poor Tom.
Love, whose month is ever May,
Is Cadwal mad?
I myself fight not once in forty year.
affection to your honour, and to no further
With good old folks and let them tell thee tales
Proteus, the good conceit I hold of thee--
What were you talking of when I came? Was Hector
And, after some small space, being strong at heart,
'Caesar, beware of Brutus, take heed of Cassius,
And I prithee tell me, how dost thou find the
Particularities and petty sounds
Safe mayst thou wander, safe return again!
'He that is giddy thinks the world turns round:'
be strange, stout, in yellow stockings, and
He was a scholar, and a ripe and good one,
And birth, that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit.
Enter PAULINA, with a child
the women: but, for my part, she is my kinswoman, I
And made a push at chance and sufferance.
Be copy now to men of grosser blood,
I will with all expedient duty see you:
To Luciana
Please you to accept it, that the queen is spotless
Re-enter HELENA
And loosed his love-shaft smartly from his bow,
At least two glasses. The time 'twixt six and now
No more than when my daughters call thee mother.
Now are they come.
Well, well.
say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
O, I should have a heavy miss of thee,
Notice to Escalus and Angelo,
This is a man, old, wrinkled, faded, wither'd,
To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames
Enter DOGBERRY and VERGES with the Watch
If any spark of life be yet remaining,
Had borne the business!'
Enter his thoughts, save such as do revolve
I pray you, bear with me, I cannot go no further.
Your voice shall be as strong as any man's
Now, master sheriff, what is your will with me?
That hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong!
Where biting cold would never let grass grow,
No care, no stop! so senseless of expense,
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
Is now leased out, I die pronouncing it,
O lamentable day!
But bid farewell, and go: when you sued staying,
That even her art sisters the natural roses,
Who, queasy with his insolence
Well, I would you did like me.
You, sir, more knave than fool, after your master.
Who must we answer?
This is stiff news--hath, with his Parthian force,
Or else new form'd 'em, having both the key
When his fair angels would salute my palm,
And thou art honest too.
He, I know him.
Your eyes, which hitherto have borne in them
High order in this great solemnity.
Nothing at all: it is a highwrought flood,
Lets fall his sword before your highness' feet,
I think, but dare not speak.
And to make whores, a bawd. Hold up, you sluts,
One that still motions war and never peace,
Come, go: I will fall prostrate at his feet
A breach that craves a quick expedient stop!
Enter Vintner
it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
What is 'Pourquoi'? do or not do? I would I had
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
Wilt thou yet leave the battle, boy, and fly,
Creating awe and fear in other men?
Dost thou say so?
Proceed by swallowing that, for he believes
Sit.
From whom my absence was not six months old
Haply when they have judged me fast asleep,
And it is thought abroad, that 'twixt my sheets
My lord, this is my daughter here asleep,
see where he looks out of the window.
Come you, my lord, to see my open shame?
To cease! Wast thou ordain'd, dear father,
Pray you, do.
Then know that I have little wealth to lose:
O, the father, how he holds his countenance!
If she do chide, 'tis not to have you gone,
The weary sun hath made a golden set,
A better guiding spirit! What needs these hands?
This, this All-Souls' day to my fearful soul
Do seek subversion of thy harmless life?
Against a falling fabric. Will you hence,
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
There stripp'd himself, and here upon his arm
Becomes thee well enough.
Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
You'll go with us?
O rare instinct!
The senators of Athens greet thee, Timon.
For the rain,  and c.
I remember
Where I must take like seat unto my fortune,
That all the court may echo with the noise.
When they are gone, then must I count my gains.
A devil, a born devil, on whose nature
When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name,
I may not suffer you to visit them,
And well such losers may have leave to speak.
Harmoniously charmingly. May I be bold
Drawn tuns of blood out of thy country's breast,
Awakes my conscience to confess all this.
Pool! Sir Pool! lord!
hence, and not a word, for here comes more company.
SCENE III. A bedchamber.
description, level at my affection.
Yes, sir.
So I hope,
With other gentlemen of good esteem,
She never saw it.
And to that place the sharp Athenian law
You have defended me from imminent death.
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
Who glared upon me, and went surly by,
Hath stepp'd into the law, which is past depth
Heaven prosper the right! What weapons is he?
SCENE III. A hall in the castle.
throat, that is not the matter I challenge thee for.'
Good morrow, general.
But wilt thou faithfully?
And look on their endeavour.
A pair of stocks, you rogue!
You will lose this wager, my lord.
SCENE VIII. A field of battle.
Away, I say, I charge ye, bear her hence.
I think she doth, and that's her cause of sorrow.
There is a word will Priam turn to stone,
O night, O night! alack, alack, alack,
There, Leonato, take her back again:
[Aside to a stander by]
What was his answer?
Friendly together: so through Lud's-town march:
Such things as might offend the weakest spleen
And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine.
The harder match'd, the greater victory:
Upon this warrant shall you have access
That said'st I begg'd the empire at thy hands.
My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here
This is a happier and more comely time
but if you say, 'Marry her,' I will marry her, that
The custom of request you have discharged:
To supper, to our house.
And she a fair divided excellence,
The other turns to a mirth-moving jest,
daughters, and leave his horns without a case.
Good gentleman! the wrongs I have done thee stir
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Were deeply rooted, and shall make your lord,
your infamy circum circa,--a gig of a cuckold's horn.
Farewell, and if my fortune be not crost,
that I take for you is as easy as thanks. If I do
And in record, left them the heirs of shame.
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
We'll hear the will: read it, Mark Antony.
Tell him, when that our princely father York
RICHARD
He'll watch the horologe a double set,
Who answer'd him, they came from Buckingham.
Like heralds 'twixt two dreadful battles set:
Enter a Post
'Hath sent to me, wishing me to permit
I forgive him.
Exit
Soft, swain, awhile, beseech you,
king himself.
For this will out, and here I must not stay.
The strangeness of your story put
What, did they never whisper?
Tell thee, Macduff was from his mother's womb
And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
[Reads]  'An if we miss to meet him handsomely--
And it was dyed in mummy which the skilful
Upon the part o' the people, in whose power
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
Enter PROSPERO in his magic robes, and ARIEL
he feels no pain, the one lacking the burden of lean
A local habitation and a name.
Now, Eros.
Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see
Catch sung
desires to speak with you both.
Unfold it.
Between their births.
Exit
I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
That shall fly with them: for many a thousand widows
you speak. But, if ever the duke return, as our
That can torment him much and hold him long,
He is a man, setting his fate aside,
entrenched it: say to him, I live, and observe his
Such goodly things as you!
lest he knock that about yours.
Forgets the shows of love to other men.
Are these thy bears? we'll bait thy bears to death.
'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and, swifter than
proportion, rests me his minim rest, one, two, and
devils' additions, the names of fiends: but
Then enterprise is sick! How could communities,
of your marriage as to show a child his new coat
O, by this count I shall be much in years
It will be rain to-night.
To do this ruthless piece of butchery,
Allayments to their act, and by them gather
Like a fine bragging youth, and tell quaint lies,
In good sadness, I am sorry that for my sake you
After so long grief, such festivity!
How now! how now!
This palliament of white and spotless hue,
His fretted fortunes give him hope, and fear,
Exeunt
Storm still
As thou art to this hour was Richard then
Follow me!
So 'twere not 'long of him, but being enter'd,
Pushes him away
O, I smell false Latin, dunghill for unguem.
Hast thou no suit against my knight, my
To speak with Timon.
Contenteth me, and worth a monarchy.
forest judge.
Were thy commixtion Greek and Trojan so
By Lady Fortune, while our scene must play
Alas!
The fool hath planted in his memory
My wish receive,
Perform'd in this wide gap of time since first
And therefore do we what we are commanded.
A true-devoted pilgrim is not weary
I say it is the moon that shines so bright.
Our king is not like him in that: he never killed
Though Rome be therefore angry: Mulmutius made our laws,
The conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed, good Alexander.
Will bless it and approve it with a text,
I found it by the barrenness, hard in the palm of the hand.
of Limbo and of Furies and I know not what: yet I
Witness this wretched stump, witness these crimson lines,
While I spare speech, which something now
Enter MISTRESS FORD
Exit
Ajax: it kills sheep, it kills me, I a sheep:
But you, my noble lords, may name the time,
Begun through malice of the bishop's men.
Now do I see thee, ha! have at thee, Hector!
Would through the airy region stream so bright
Of Cloten's death--we being not known, not muster'd
Undoing all, as all had never been!
Enter Chamberlain and SANDS
Drink thou, increase the reels.
Every time
Along with me.
As proofs of holy writ: this may do something.
halfpenny loaves sold for a penny: the three-hooped
Enter Guard
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Sound a sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER,  CARDINAL, BUCKINGHAM, YORK, SOMERSET, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and the DUCHESS
For fear we wake her: softly, gentle Patience.
From my Redeemer to redeem me hence,
Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud,
Ay, let the county take you in your bed,
Till Paris was besieged, famish'd, and lost.
You have heard him swear downright he was.
Not so, sir, neither, I know my duty.
Farewell!
Then shall you know the wounds invisible
That if they come to sojourn at my house,
His issue disinherited should be,
Since thou dost deign to woo her little worth
Why, my horse, my love, my horse.
No, by mine honour, madam.
Thou changed and self-cover'd thing, for shame,
get you a pair of horns.
Of easy ways to die. Take up her bed,
Sir, I thank God, I have been so well brought up
Give sorrow words: the grief that does not speak
For revels, dances, masks and merry hours
But of the finer natures? by some severals
Which, since, succeeding ages have re-edified.
None, but such remedy as, to save a head,
There saw you labouring for him. What was't
sorrow that e'er I heard virgin exclaim in: which I
SCENE II. The same. Pandarus' orchard.
Is there no exorcist
His thinkings are below the moon, not worth
The royal tree hath left us royal fruit,
Sirrah Grumio, go to your mistress,
friar. But no more of this. Canst thou tell if
If that the devil and mischance look big
The Britons have razed out, though with the loss
you lie.  What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord,
So, leave him all. Well, my companion friends,
'Mongst all foes that a friend should be the worst!
'Tis no sinister nor no awkward claim,
Ran in my veins, I was a gentleman,
If after this command thou fraught the court
When with his solemn tongue he did discourse
And do you tell me of a woman's tongue,
shall fall in love with Benedick, and I, with your
And York and impious Beaufort, that false priest,
I will despair, and be at enmity
Thou hast no feeling of it, Moth: I will speak that l'envoy:
Do give thee five-fold blazon: not too fast:
you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
To CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
No, fair princess, he is the general challenger: I
Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the
Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.
Lo, at their births good stars were opposite.
It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
There is, sure, another flood toward, and these
The gods can have no mortal officer
Which, but for him that had your husband's ring,
At your pleasure.
No Valentine, if Silvia have forsworn me.
His companies unletter'd, rude and shallow,
some care.
This honest man, wait like a lousy footboy
How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featured,
And I with my long nails will dig thee pignuts,
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus.
And fits the mounting spirit like myself,
That we, the sons and children of this isle,
Have to my widow! and if she be froward,
again. The king is coming.
Whose chronicle thus writ: 'The man was noble,
Thou hast robb'd me of this deed: I would revenges,
Speed then, to take advantage of the field.
He wills you, in the name of God Almighty,
That Alexander Iden, an esquire of Kent,
Now is the time of help, your eye in Scotland
And would usurp upon my watery eyes
I heard myself proclaim'd,
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
Would you buy her, that you inquire after her?
Give me one poor request.
A murderous guilt shows not itself more soon
Fare you well, my dove!
This swears he, as he is a prince, is just,
One that hath ever been God's enemy:
Why not, my lord? If then they chanced to slack you,
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
Thou givest me somewhat to repair myself,
Found his deserts: how innocent I was
Outran my purpose, and I return'd the rather
By you unhappied and disfigured clean:
Stand close, and list him.
There's the moral. Now the l'envoy.
Some devils ask but the parings of one's nail,
They say all lovers swear more performance than they
Look out there, some of ye.
them may have crook'd noses, but to owe such
Now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
Heaven take my soul, and England keep my bones!
This is his lordship's man.
This is the fool that lent out money gratis:
It is the law, not I condemn your brother:
'Tis the same: high-steward.
this letter: the army of France is landed. Seek
Canonized and worshipped as a saint,
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, at several doors
The lazy time, if not with some delight?
and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
name, I have done.
I would appeach him.
cities, mutinies, in countries, discord, in
Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS.
DON
And not the punishment. Therefore indeed, my father,
My lord, in Athens.
I did repel his fetters and denied
Come, come, will't please you go?
you and pray with you.
bowling, it will please plentifully.
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
Never did mockers waste more idle breath.
Enter OBERON and TITANIA with their train
Of something nearly that concerns yourselves.
that I love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father,
Were but his picture left amongst you here,
Glad am I that your highness is so arm'd
Drown desperate sorrow in dead Edward's grave,
So.
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
But, soft! who wafts us yonder?
It is your uncle.
Which we devise him.
Upon surmises, all proofs sleeping else
And often at his very loose decides
How they are stain'd, as meadows, yet not dry,
Leave your crisp channels and on this green land
Of my queen's travails!
Let me bear another to his horse, for that's the more
And leave you to the hearing of the cause,
And this our life exempt from public haunt
Strengthen'd with what apology you think
I will bethink me. May I speak with Antonio?
Ay.
O'er-run and trampled on: then what they do in present,
On forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart:
Please you, therefore, draw nigh, and take your places.
With nimble soles: I have a soul of lead
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide,
Sir, I thought it fit
swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English.
Then comes my fit again: I had else been perfect,
Why, 'tis an office of discovery, love,
And every jest but a word.
whole sex withal.
My lord, there's an army gathered together in
only peacemaker, much virtue in If.
To you for gold to pay my legions,
Remember to have heard: man's nature cannot carry
To what purpose have you unfolded this to me?
No less in truth than life: my first false speaking
But to support him after. Fare you well.
I will entreat you, when you see my son,
Yet they are not join'd: where yond pine
Shall pay full dearly for this encounter,
and lady dear!'
Exit
Which we will second. When he lies along,
If at Philippi we do face him there,
I and my bosom must debate awhile,
And in their ears tell them my dreadful name,
The open ear of youth doth always listen,
Pray you now, buy it.
Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
If I thrive well, I'll visit thee again.
life! I want work.' 'O my sweet Harry,' says she,
Farewell, kind lord, fight valiantly to-day:
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
Re-enter two other Citizens
Good morrow, father.
Impatient of my absence,
But till 'twere known!
Look on my George, I am a gentleman:
Come hither, ere my tree hath felt the axe,
What is it?--Coriolanus must I call thee?--
And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald--
will say, 'Came you off with so little?' and great
The blackest news that ever thou heardest.
And with thy blessings steel my lance's point,
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
And wonder what they were and to what end
One friend to take his fortune by the arm,
Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you
To find out right with wrong, it may not be,
he would quickly have the gift of a grave.
I mean, thy general.
Discover more at large what cause that was,
devotion than can render it him, and leaves
Fill me some wine.
All that's spoke is marr'd.
And says, if ladies be but young and fair,
yellowness, for the revolt of mine is dangerous:
In their assign'd and native dwelling-place.
And see what death is doing.
With spritely fire and motion, whose simple touch,
and the rams together and to offer to get your
Tell them there I have gold, look, so I have.
Exit
But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl.
Sir, she can turn, and turn, and yet go on,
most resolutely snatched on Monday night and most
O my good lord, that comfort comes too late,
O Lord, sir, 'tis a deed of policy:
Exposed unto the sea, which hath requit it,
I know it by their pale and deadly looks:
Such separation as may well be said
Loved as he loves himself: even now I met him
How say you now? is not your husband mad?
O, I could play the woman with mine eyes
A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile
Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare.
Reads
your master is hard at door, if he bid you set it
The flesh?
To do a great right, do a little wrong,
Woe the while!
From most true wretchedness: so thou, Posthumus,
And to his hand when I deliver her,
My spirit can no longer bear these harms.
love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it, for the
Sail like my pinnace to these golden shores.
So out of circumstance and sudden, tells us
Exit
Who then, affrighted with their bloody looks,
Give me to drink mandragora.
Thee and the devil alike. What ho, Pisanio!
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and Soldiers
That it may show me what a face I have,
To you that choked it. Let be call'd before us
Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.
Not I.
Were hid against me, now to forgive me frankly.
Yes, madam, and moreover
being once gone.
And all my pains is sorted to no proof.
Shall I command thy love? I may: shall I enforce
'Though all at once cannot
Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
Where liest o' nights, Timon?
Cry 'No recovery.'
to in a month.
Oui, vraiment, sauf votre grace, ainsi dit-il.
And you shall see 'tis purchased by the weight,
deal in evil: he excels his brother for a coward,
ground is threescore and ten miles afoot with me,
'Oman, forbear.
oaths of him and might not spend them at my pleasure.
Will you have me, lady?
I had rather walk here, I thank you. I bruised
With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
Re-enter BENEDICK
Ay, with my dagger in their bosoms, grandsire.
Up with my tent there! Valiant gentlemen,
What is the matter, uncle? speak,
Out of himself?
[Aside]  To cart her rather: she's too rough for me.
Thou shalt have one.
That I am not.
To Julius Caesar's ill-erected tower,
Who brought it?
Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'
Put bars between the owners and their rights!
Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him up:
Or any groat I hoarded to my use,
As a man sorely tainted, to his answer,
Tim Richard wear the garland of the realm.
increase and there was never virgin got till
Especially since Charles must father it.
In taint of our best man. No, make a lottery,
In a most weak--
lost mutton, nothing for my labour.
And hid the gold within the letter mention'd,
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
horses ran away, how her bridle was burst, how I
Exeunt PRINCE HENRY and POINS
And all be turn'd to barnacles, or to apes
Exit
Where I intend holy confession.
Young Ned, for thee, thine uncles and myself
Leave me, I pray, a little: pray you now:
I, that did never weep, now melt with woe
With strife to please you, day exceeding day:
So much fairer
LAVINIA turns over with her stumps the books which LUCIUS has let fall
Titus, I am come to talk with thee.
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
But well, when I discourse of love and peace?
According to our proclamation gone?
They are gone but to meet the duke, villain: do not
I thought King Henry had resembled thee
me!
They durst not do 't,
I will knead him, I'll make him supple.
Else, ruin combat with their palaces!
The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee new nuts.
Pray heaven it be not so, that you have such a man
That need must needs infer this principle,
According to our order.
And tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd.
obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
I thank thee, Moon, for shining now so bright,
What's that, Butts?
Well, I will be so much a sinner, to be a
He.
The truth is then most done not doing it:
Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete,
O, go not yet! Even thus two friends condemn'd
My lord, I know not, I, nor can I guess,
That she was never yet that ever knew
Look, what thy soul holds dear, imagine it
[Kneeling] And to your royal grace, and the good queen,
For Humphrey being dead, as he shall be,
Enter RODERIGO
I am as ignorant in that as you
Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
No, mighty King of France: now Margaret
True, for he bears it not about him, 'tis hid.
policy than in malice, even so as one would beat his
Launcelot, my boy.
Therefore, sirrah,
And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
Sometime a keeper here in Windsor forest,
ACT IV
Which hath an operation more divine
First, for I cannot flatter thee in pride,
Then, at the expiration of the year,
The clogging burthen of a guilty soul.
You have known him long, and be you well assured
If by direct or by collateral hand
And so, ere answer knows what question would,
Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean,
ACT II
Trembled and shook, for why, he stamp'd and swore,
Were best he do it secretly, alone.
Had I your tongues and eyes, I'ld use them so
Enter VALENTINE
To towers and windows, yea, to chimney-tops,
You valiant offspring of great Priamus.
Wounded to death.
What do you prate of service?
Or that persuasion could but thus convince me,
That I might strive to kill it with a groan.
In practise let us put it presently.
Hark what thou else shalt do me.
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
Next, Cleopatra does confess thy greatness,
And none contented: sometimes am I king,
For he hath been five thousand years a boy.
Of it own colour too.
Or rather swaying more upon our part
pray you, tell me if this be the lady of the house,
That do corrupt my air, I banish you,
By the fool multitude, that choose by show,
the world bitter to the best of our times, keeps
Sir, look well to my husband's house, and--
What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
Welcome, Jack: where hast thou been?
Strange times, that weep with laughing, not with weeping!
And triumph, Henry, in thy day of doom.
That reason wonder may diminish,
Inform us of thy fortunes, for it seems
To fight with Talbot: as he march'd along,
To stop devoted charitable deeds?
Or else be impudently negative,
To be married to her: friar, you come to marry her.
And, lords, accept this hearty kind embrace:
Their shallow shows and prologue vilely penn'd
Time is their master, and, when they see time,
O, how this discord doth afflict my soul!
What is the issue of the business there.
is Claudio. I have known when there was no music
The native act and figure of my heart
In what, my dear lord?
Whither dost thou go?
Perhaps thy childishness will move him more
sport, I will show you a monster. Master doctor,
d'Angleterre, Heritier de France, and thus in
Soft, Caesar!
Or shall we bite our tongues, and in dumb shows
Mine ear hath tempted judgment to desire.
Our quick remove from hence.
Iron of Naples hid with English gilt,
And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life!
He is not yet arrived: nor know I aught
Be in their flowing cups freshly remember'd.
To meet all perils very constantly.
Nothing acquainted with these businesses,
I am a drunkard! Had I as many mouths as Hydra,
whore-masterly villain, with the sleeve, back to the
That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
seven-night, and a time too brief, too, to have all
I care not whither, for I beg no favour,
Come let's in all.
A cold and drowsy humour, for no pulse
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
I must not yet forsake you: let's be merry:
all, if there is not better directions.
Enter VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA	they set them down on two low stools, and sew
Madam, we'll play at bowls.
Been both at Delphos, and from thence have brought
Because we now are full. It was thought meet
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
Who knows not that?
So bold Leander would adventure it.
Why, then thou art an executioner.
It is in vain that you would speak with Timon,
O damn'd Iago! O inhuman dog!
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
excel thee in my rapier as much as thou didst me in
I cannot find it, 'tis not in the bond.
And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
If I gave them all my living, I'ld keep my coxcombs
To give them this discomfort? Look, they weep,
Hold me a foe,
Was I a child to fear I know not what.
With that which, but by being so retired,
Why hast thou slain thine only daughter thus?
Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight,
The sun doth gild our armour, up, my lords!
I am a-weary, give me leave awhile:
To make a seemly answer to such persons.
This is not so well as I looked for, but the best
Do so, and 'tis well.
I thank you all: drink, and pray for me, I pray
but on one side, breaks his staff like a noble
Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir.
I did, I saw him dead,
Of burning cressets, and at my birth
Are you a-weary of me?
Where hope is coldest and despair most fits.
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
Notice of my affair. I humbly thank you:
But the free comfort which from thence he hears,
Dear amity and everlasting love.
Sirs, help our uncle to convey him in.
know not myself, he would never have boarded me in this fury.
To hear the rest untold: sir, lead's the way.
We had conceived against him: Maria writ
That I had been forsworn. Beshrew your eyes,
Deck'd with five flower-de-luces on each side,
The raging rocks
If here you housed him, here he would have been,
A short alarum
crowned with your enjoying her. Adieu. You shall
My reasons are most strong, and you shall know them
And be these juggling fiends no more believed,
his valour: what is his honesty?
And they in France of the best rank and station
Our care and pity is so much upon you,
king's sake, he were living! I think it would be
You do him injury to scorn his corse.
Make battery to our ears with the loud music:
First Serving-man	Nay, if we be forbidden stones,
Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles
Exit
A rout, confusion thick, forthwith they fly
ANTIPHOLUS
so that in the beastliest sense you are Pompey the
Shall I tell you why?
Come, go with us, we'll bring thee to our crews,
Good my lord,
Why should I war without the walls of Troy,
And so much duty as my mother show'd
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
For Margaret my queen, and Clifford too,
I know not how to tell thee who I am:
I will be with thee straight.
Must I bite?
cruelly. If ever thou beest mine, Kate, as I have a
How they may be, and yet in two,
the breach yourselves made, you lose your city. It
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
But, if I bow, they'll say it was for fear.
Namely, to Hastings, Derby, Buckingham,
Exit an Attendant
That, if you fail in our request, the blame
There is my pledge,
I had rather hear Lady, my brach, howl in Irish.
You have put him down, lady, you have put him down.
It is certain, corporal, that he is married to Nell
The fires i' the lowest hell fold-in the people!
Lord marshal, command our officers at arms
Than young Alcides, when he did redeem
To entertain great England's lawful king.
I make all use of it, for I use it only.
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Even to the guilt or the purgation.
And wakes it now, to look so green and pale
Come hither, Francis.
Where be my horses? speak well of them, varletto.
And being fed by us you used us so
But doth suffer a sea-change
ANTIPHOLUS
What sayest thou, my bully-rook?
In compliment extern, 'tis not long after
A bare-ribb'd death, whose office is this day
And so dies my revenge.
How! what does his cashiered worship mutter?
Enter HERMIA and DEMETRIUS
Stay you, good gentlemen. Look you pale, mistress?
Welcome, fall to: I will not trouble you
As if you were a god to punish, not
So I am, to let him live.
In all humility unto his highness:
Our great navy's rigg'd.
Nay, that I will not.
To you in satisfaction, but if not,
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
of his valour. He is, indeed, sir, the most skilful,
Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms,
Your maidenheads growing: O Proserpina,
Hey, Mountain, hey!
clown, thou perishest, or, to thy better
Tut, tut,
Tell me, heavenly bow,
Of the whole body: but, if you do remember,
Round about the cauldron go,
shoes in the grime of it.
out of rings?
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome,
Nay, come, your hands and lips must seal it too:
Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispersed and fled.
How Thaliard came full bent with sin
That doth belong unto the house of York,
wing of all occasions. But whatsoever I have
Forbad my tongue to speak of Mortimer,
Do you not know me, father?
That run i' the clock's behalf. But this is foolery:
Pluck down forms, windows, any thing.
and I sall quit you with gud leve, as I may pick
Exeunt
And with no face, as 'twere, outfacing me,
And cannot make away.
Stand aye accursed in the calendar!
That I did love the Moor to live with him,
many nicer needs, the last was the greatest, but
And are by me with child,'  and c. This is done:
Enter LUCIANUS
He left me proudly, as unworthy fight.
He gives you, upon his knees, a thousand thanks, and
Why, as men do a-land, the great ones eat up the
we are married, that we may lighten our own hearts
By this alliance to make void my suit:
Where was this lane?
Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.
But reverence to your calling makes me modest.
Wounds his arm
How fares the prince?
This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard.
With honour and with fortune is return'd
I hold you a penny,
Even in the presence of the crowned king.
with the young noble soldier.
You wager'd on your angling, when your diver
The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark,
Where is this sight?
My grisly countenance made others fly,
Something of me, or what concerns me: pray you,--
Whose mother was her painting, hath betray'd him:
grief, in fine, made a groan of her last breath, and
This is not altogether fool, my lord.
And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand,
imports it.
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
[Within]  Francis!
Look in my face.
I'll be sworn 'tis true, he will weep you, an 'twere
His seal'd commission, left in trust with me,
They only now come but to feast thine eyes.
But now you partly may perceive my mind.
Or else a wit by folly vanquished.
About that which concerns your grace and us,
Might in the times to come have ta'en revenge,
Here, take this purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
In Jove's own book, like an unnatural dam
Re-enter Provost, with BARNARDINE, CLAUDIO muffled, and JULIET
May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
'Tis so: and as war, in some sort, may be said to
O worthiest cousin!
I am to pray you not to strain my speech
I would to God my heart were flint, like Edward's,
Every one.
Whispers CHARMIAN
'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
I came hither to tell you, and, circumstances
Nay, and you will not, sir, I'll take my heels.
A very valiant Briton and a good,
Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be,
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
In anger, Juno-like. Come, come, come.
Wallets of flesh? or that there were such men
Yield: come before my father. Light, ho, here!
Enter a Messenger
Atone together.
Who on the French ground play'd a tragedy,
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
Re-enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM
Could put into them, my breeding was, sir, as
[Aside]  Well, heaven forgive him! and forgive us all!
your victuals: come, there is sauce for it.
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven,
Like music.
As you shall give the advice. By the fire
Would ever with Marina be:
Thou troublest me, am not in the vein.
For it is thine.
Sir Toby would leave drinking, thou wert as witty a
Hal! a plague upon you both! Bardolph! Peto!
To lay on me a cruelty, by taking
Our most persisted deeds.
For you must know, we have with special soul
See where she comes, apparell'd like the spring,
To the trunk again, and shut the spring of it.
Who's there? Othello?
made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in
You may go walk, and give me leave a while:
That play'd on her ripe lip, seem'd not to know
The son of Duncan,
gardez ma vie, et je vous donnerai deux cents ecus.
Which he did give himself, I know not how,
Ay, ay, I must bear it.
'Faith, the cry goes that you shall marry her.
The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon!
Who's there, I say? How dare you thrust yourselves
Meaning, to court'sy.
A terrible and unavoided danger:
And now forthwith shall articles be drawn
What's in his heart, and that is there which looks
Against proud Somerset and William Pole,
Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.
In holier shapes: for there is boundless theft
What is his name?
Be an arch-villain, believe it, royal prince:
Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.
Thereof to be inform'd, imprison't not
And should, if I were worthy to be judge,
Look you, sir, here is the hand and seal of the
Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
Caesar has had great wrong.
Very necessity of this thought, that I,
Enter CLOTEN and Lords
As e'er I did commit.
Rebell'd against the belly, thus accused it:
Hast thou no mouth by land? What is the news?
Ay, my lord, even so
Where with it I may appear a gentleman,
Try many, all good, serve truly, never
Starve-lackey the rapier and dagger man, and young
His daughter, and the heir of's kingdom, whom
You are merry, my lord.
though I could not with such estimable wonder
No.
No, say'st me so, friend? What countryman?
And thou, brave Oxford, wondrous well beloved,
That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
Come, go we then together.
Trumpets sounded, and the coffin laid in the tomb
Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature,
Anointed let me be with deadly venom,
At young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter,
But with much forcing of his disposition.
Go in, Bianca:
Go, go, be gone, to save your ship from wreck,
How? to send him word they'll meet him in the park
When she shall challenge this, you will reject her.
of his own judgments, wherein so curiously he had
Happy were England, would this gracious prince
Than where castles mounted stand.'
SCENE I. Rome. BRUTUS's orchard.
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
I prithee, peace, good queen,
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl,
What shall I do? I'll creep up into the chimney.
I pray you, do not push me, I'll be gone.
What cannot be amended.
The burning torch in yonder turret stands.
But I do love the favour and the form
I was too hot to do somebody good,
And those that leave their valiant bones in France,
Ascribe we all! When, without stratagem,
Where great patricians shall attend and shrug,
Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am
The legions and the horse whole, do you not?
O nuncle, court holy-water in a dry
In thy tale.
The last was I that helped thee to the crown,
To smother up the English in our throngs,
For, knowing thee to be but young and light--
them. Come, I know thou lovest me: and at night,
My liege, this was my glove, here is the fellow of
To thirty thousand.
If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call
Why, I could wish him to be my master, or rather, my mistress.
I have no mind of feasting forth to-night:
Come, Kate, sit down, I know you have a stomach.
To meet her new-beloved any where:
over this stool and run away.
Thou art the issue of my dear offence,
The gay new coats o'er the French soldiers' heads
The last is, for my men, they are the poorest,
My lord, I hear the Marquis Dorset's fled
And to survey the bodies of the dead.
as good go a mile on his errand.
For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me,
And caterpillars eat my leaves away,
More than the common blocks: not noted, is't,
My plenteous joys,
They say, is shamefully bereft of life.
Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go farther
He faints! My lord, my lord!
The town sounds a parley.
Which leaves itself: to the sea-side straightway:
[Within]  My lord, my lord,--
Here he comes, and in the gown of humility: mark his
And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.
He pleaded still not guilty and alleged
But I am troubled here with them myself,
For a worthy lady
I'll tell you, sir, in private, if you please
No humble suitors press to speak for right,
threatened to beat her.
The time is unagreeable to this business:
Look you what I have from the loving king.
So likely to report themselves: the cutter
'tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on, and for
the emperor from you.
And so, good night.
Which by my Lord of Winchester we mean
Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves,
And Master Slender's your master?
Yea, faith itself to hollow falsehood change!
And now he feasts, mousing the flesh of men,
My good master,
Was with long use account no sin.
Prithee, to bed, and in thy prayers remember
But in this extant moment, faith and troth,
Do so. Go tell thy master I am alone.
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten
Maintain no words with him, good fellow. Who, I,
When wit's more ripe, accept my rhymes.
That hath contrived this woful tragedy!
that give fools money get themselves a good
Before we make election, give me leave
Enter the WARWICK and SALISBURY
But now the substance shall endure the like,
That, if requiring fail, he will compel,
Say no more:
shepherd, which stands by like a weather-bitten
That yarely frame the office. From the barge
Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires,
Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits:
and lost all my money?
ACT III
God's blessing on your beard!
'Faith, her privates we.
His beard was grizzled--no?
I would not, so with love I might entreat you,
Else would he never so demean himself.
And must be made a subject to a duke?
Why, there's a wench! Come on, and kiss me, Kate.
Bound by my charity and my blest order,
True! pow, wow.
And I will kill thee, if thou dost deny
And cast you, with the waters that you lose,
Exeunt
And whom, by heaven I swear, I tender dearly,
Have had to resort to you: for here have been
It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue,
To some Attendants
herself. Be happy, lady, for you are like an
Why, that will I.
stare him out of his wits, I will awe him with my
Good fortune, worthy soldier, and farewell.
Although ye hale me to a violent death.
I never thought him worse.
Gives way to us, I much fear. If you cannot
Whether thou best he or no,
The Volsces dare break with us.
Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
I prithee, call't. For this ungentle business
What, not a whore?
Then say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
Enter Murderers
requisites in him that folly and green minds look
I thank thee for that jest, here's a garment for't:
Art thou gone too? all comfort go with thee!
Of both is flatter'd, but he neither loves,
Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
I never knew
They told me that your name was Fontibell.
Your master wed me to: nothing but death
If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man.
I something do excuse the thing I hate,
'Tis truly so.
o'clock in the afternoon.
Masters o' the people,
Why, then, this may be yours, for this is but one.
And there it is in writing, fairly drawn.
Both him and all his brothers unto reason.
Or take his life there: this if she perform,
To give you over at this first encounter,
More after our commandment than as guided
Proud lord, thou liest:
Trumpet sounds. Enter certain Citizens upon the walls
Of Laertes?
Be as cauterizing to the root o' the tongue,
Of what we chance to sentence.
Good Master Fabian, grant me another request.
Last night of all,
That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth.
Therefore he sends to know your lordship's pleasure,
Than without candle may go dark to bed--
March: flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers
Thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up
he so takes on yonder with my husband, so rails
But not without that harmful stroke, which since
bacons, on! What, ye knaves! young men must live.
If thou use to beat me, I will begin at thy heel, and
When ladies crave to be encounter'd with.
prevailing and to make it brief wars. This is true,
That his soul sicken not.
opposite. Now, to seem to affect the malice and
Re-enter Gaoler, with EMILIA
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
That's not so good now.
Alarums. Enter CASSIUS and TITINIUS
When judges have been babes, great floods have flown
She was the first fruit of my bachelorship.
Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
Hark, hark! one knocks: Portia, go in awhile,
To be by oath enjoin'd to this. Farewell!
Royal Lear,
That want no ear but yours.
Come hissing in upon 'em,--
'Item: She can knit.'
The smallest twine may lead me.
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
Will I live?
Should make a start o'er seas and vanquish you?
Enter PROTEUS
Yes, sir, as well as you dare patronage
never a worthier man.
So far from cheer and from your former state,
When I have feasted with Queen Margaret?
Know, worthy prince, Sir Valentine, my friend,
What colour, madam! how shall I answer you?
By their own beauties, or, if love be blind,
Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day.
Prove that I cannot, take me home again,
My name is Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
No treachery, but want of men and money.
Why either were you ignorant to see't,
done this day. I have paid Percy, I have made him sure.
The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
To him or our authorities. For an end,
In brief, he led me to the gentle duke,
A sacrilegious thief, to do't: the temple
ACT II
I know not the contents, but, as I guess
Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?
Tokens and letters which she did re-send,
And greets your highness dearly.
SCENE II. Milan. Outside the DUKE's palace, under SILVIA's chamber.
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.
More fiery by night's blackness, hereditary,
What you have underta'en to do in's absence.
And that it comes from old Andronicus,
Fly toward Belmont: come, Antonio.
Behold the ordnance on their carriages,
I thank my memory, I yet remember
We do, my lord.
To satisfy my lady.
Then there's my glove,
If he did not care whether he had their love or no,
Away, you Ethiope!
And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.
Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves,
And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it.
Methought the billows spoke and told me of it,
Enter LUCILIUS, with three Strangers
Your honourable letter he desires
And have their provender tied to their mouths
Nay, faith, let me not play a woman, I have a beard coming.
As when a giant dies.
Thy love! out, tawny Tartar, out!
Few words suffice, and therefore, if thou know
'Tis a villain, sir,
Alas, I am a woman, friendless, hopeless!
for he's a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman
How, sir?
Enter the Thieves again
Not of a woman's tenderness to be,
Therein the patient
And knows me, and knows me,
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me,
Some ditch wherein to die, the foul'st best fits
Mine eyes smell onions, I shall weep anon:
Protector, see to't well, protect yourself.
enemies, and what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath
'Tis thought, my lord, that you took bribes of France,
For this one night, which, part of it, I'll waste
Out of hope of all, but my share of the feast.
I heard you say that you had rather refuse
Tarry, Jew:
orchard like a bum-baily: so soon as ever thou seest
I would prevail, if prayers might prevail,
By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. I
Were you there?
First will I see the coronation,
And buckle in a waist most fathomless
Great Agamemnon, Nestor shall apply
'Zounds! who is there?
And touch thy instrument a strain or two?
Tush, tush!
Whereto thy speech serves for authority,
You must lay lime to tangle her desires
Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance,
A spleeny Lutheran, and not wholesome to
Enter OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, and their army
Kind my lord.
not in the contents.
To please the king I did, to please myself
So great fear of my name 'mongst them was spread,
Under your pardon. You must note beside,
If this inducement force her not to love,
Know, then, that some of us are gentlemen,
And live upon the vapour of a dungeon,
Which nor our nature nor our place can bear,
How got they in, and be hang'd?
name of a Christian.
Heaven hath through me restored the king to health.
CYMBELINE
Or piteous they will look, like drowned mice.
Be sure of that,--two other husbands.
Throws up another skull
And strain their cheeks to idle merriment,
Would Katharina had never seen him though!
Indued with intellectual sense and souls,
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:
SCENE II. The highway, near Gadshill.
My man of men.
Blush not in actions blacker than the night,
A wolf, nay, worse, a fellow all in buff,
Either a coward or a flatterer.
So long a poor unknown.
Exit
Almost the sum he pays.
Knocks
Take away his weapon. Fellow, thank God, and the
If you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle
We will greet the time.
And sin to break it.
The king's son have I landed by himself,
Desire them home. Give me thy hand, my cousin,
he hath framed a letter to a sequent of the stranger
you.
I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo,
Thou hast not loved.
Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself,
Thou must.
And the queen's sons and brothers haught and proud:
from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
Out of thy sleep. What is it thou didst say?
Heralds, from off our towers we might behold,
Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in
To undergo with me an enterprise
Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow.
Is execution done on Cawdor? Are not
Expected: since he went from Egypt 'tis
With a true heart
Show me the place:
him so, that he shall suppose no other but that he
It is, it is: hie hence, be gone, away!
Almost in Christendom: shortly, I believe,
To an honour'd triumph strangely furnished.
Even for this charge.
Some way of common trade, where subjects' feet
In a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came
Pity was all the fault that was in me,
If you use them, Margaret, you must put in the
bearing my port, 'celsa senis,' that we might
and Thisby whisper.
A hearty welcome.
Would not be friendly to.
I will bestow a breakfast to make you friends, and
To this same blessed Milford: and by the way
Full of the pasture, jumps along by him
this starting.
Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange, that is the
You do appear before them: if they shall chance,
I found it in his closet, 'tis his will:
duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or
Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:
Why hopest thou so? 'tis better hope he is,
Have misdemean'd yourself, and not a little,
I am ill at reckoning, it fitteth the spirit of a tapster.
So do all men, unless they are drunk, sick, or have no legs.
And prologue to the omen coming on,
'Twixt me and one Baptista's daughter here:
Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate
Come, sister. Dromio, play the porter well.
I pray you, tell my lord and father, madam,
To your obedience fifty fortresses,
Saw? who?
The grave does to the dead, for her male issue
Windsor leads a better life than she does: do what
or four wenches, where I stood, cried 'Alas, good
And suffer'd him to go displeased away,
pronounced:
Would it had been so, that they
Which haply by much company might be urged:
Will not you go?
Prithee, unpin me,--have grace and favour in them.
His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle,
And fly with me to Cressid!
a puppet of her.
speak to me: for I am Trinculo--be not afeard--thy
treacherous,
May blame, but not control. Who's there? the traitor?
My dread lord,
Wherewith already France is overrun.
O that I had him,
Alas, why gnaw you so your nether lip?
For what I will, I will, and there an end.
'Tis Caesar that you mean, is it not, Cassius?
But do not so. I have five hundred crowns,
I had forgot them--were two winking Cupids
Thou dearest Perdita,
Unlawfully made drunk with innocents' blood!
hate us youth: down with them: fleece them.
In second voice we'll not be satisfied,
I have said too much unto a heart of stone
Enter BUCKINGHAM from his arraignment, tip-staves  before him, the axe with the edge towards him,  halberds on each side: accompanied with LOVELL, VAUX, SANDS, and common people
Come, Proteus, 'tis your penance but to hear
O, two such silver currents, when they join,
Exit
Let us make ready straight.
The fresh and yet unbruised Greeks do pitch
Whilst emulation in the army crept:
I have this while with leaden thoughts been press'd:
them a fair departure.
How is't, Laertes?
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
live, forget to drink after thee.
I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Sir,
And bid the snail-paced Ajax arm for shame.
Why doth the Jew pause? take thy forfeiture.
And beauty that the tyrant oft reclaims
Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on
Thy grace being gain'd cures all disgrace in me.
Royal Egypt, Empress!
Exeunt
you, pardon me, he's a justice of peace in his
When they should serve their sovereign in the west?
With wisdom I might fear, my Doricles,
You would not use a gentle lady so,
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
Imagination of some great exploit
I'll manacle thy neck and feet together:
Of him I was about to call his father--
I'll come to him.
Before the birds have any cause to sing?
Let your close fire predominate his smoke,
are, or I will scarce think you have swam in a
How many worthy princes' bloods were shed,
So sure I swear to get the town or die.
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
speak to him, I will open my lips in vain, or
And, sure, he is an honourable man.
Sir, you are very welcome to our house:
I'll bring mine action on the proudest he
SCENE III. LEONATO'S orchard.
Doubtful it stood,
Enter VARRO and CLAUDIUS
You must needs yield your reason, Sir Andrew.
your heart to see it. Her husband goes this morning
But would it please thee, good Andronicus,
Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell?
You were of our determination!
Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means: but as she
Exeunt ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed,
To let you know of it.
How his companion, youthful Valentine,
When time is ripe, which will be suddenly,
It is the Lord AEneas.
shall have my pocket picked? I have lost a
Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil,
The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
In, in, in, in!
Talks as familiarly of roaring lions
If I did think, sir, I were well awake,
In good sadness, I do not know, either it is there,
Before Angiers well met, brave Austria.
Open your gates. Come, uncle Exeter,
Strike a free march to Troy! with comfort go:
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
Make me to see't, or, at the least, so prove it,
Whereby they live: and though that all at once,
I fear no uncles dead.
lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly: he
Speak, citizens, for England, who's your king?
Alas, poor wenches, where are now your fortunes!
That stand'st between her father's ground and mine!
Draw, men, for all this privileged place,
Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,
where our fate,
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Reads
Made many princes thither frame,
I will corrupt the Grecian sentinels,
Say to me, when sawest thou the Prince Florizel, my
Must be companion of his nuptial bed:
I' faith, his hair is of a good colour.
How now, young man! mean'st thou to fight to-day?
Falstaff here?
And for the sake of them thou sorrowest for,
In Brittany, received intelligence
A mother and two brothers: but, O scorn!
My lord, we were sent for.
And the wind brings it from the Capitol.
And whiles the honourable captain there
Our shame perpetual. Once a day I'll visit
Scornful Lysander! true, he hath my love,
And falling from a hill, he was so bruised
There let him stand, and rave, and cry for food,
And for dissension, who preferreth peace
Hold, sir, for God's sake! now your jest is earnest:
Will pack when it begins to rain,
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
Her pastures' grass with faithful English blood.
Re-enter TITINIUS with MESSALA
shall find, within these two days he will be here.
I will do a greater thing than that, upon your
And so, I take my leave, and thank you both.
Exeunt
Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
Exit
friend of mine.
Go charge Agrippa
There's hell, there's darkness, there's the
Marry, as I told you before, John and Robert, be
That thou depart'st hence safe,
'Hic ibat Simois, hic est Sigeia tellus,
it will feed my revenge. He hath disgraced me, and
One part of Aquitaine is bound to us,
No noise, my lord, but needful conference
Be cast from possibility of all.
With winged heels, as English Mercuries.
To give the onset to thy good advice.
As little shall the Frenchmen gain thereby.
Cry, cry! Troy burns, or else let Helen go.
So be gone: you are sped.
By history, report, or his own proof,
could then have looked on him without the help of
Whom he redeem'd from prison: all these
You shall have wine enough, my lord, anon.
A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell.
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready, now
We'll make our leisures to attend on yours.
By any voice or order of the field?
If you shall prove
I had no mind
Ay, sir, I have them at my fingers' ends: marry,
Claudio, and bring them to see this the very night
Than hate of Eglamour that goes with her.
O Antony,
No, truly.
Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death
I shall desire you, sir, to give me leave
I will forget my nature. So kind a father! Be my
For thousands more, that yet suspect no peril,
But, that I'll give my voice on Richard's side,
religious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was
Can chase away the first-conceived sound?
And the twin Dromio all were taken up,
'Faith, and so we should,
Neither.
No more than I am well acquitted of.
SCENE III. A street.
I cheer'd them up with justice of our cause,
That I was cast: and even but now he spake,
dogs bark so? be there bears i' the town?
may be ready for our apprehension.
Our duty this way lies, for God's sake come.
Outswell the colic of puff'd Aquilon:
The trumpets sound, and KING RICHARD enters with  his nobles, JOHN OF GAUNT, BUSHY, BAGOT, GREEN, and  others. When they are set, enter THOMAS MOWBRAY in arms, defendant, with a Herald
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
But his occasion might have woo'd me first,
Methinks thy voice is alter'd, and thou speak'st
This beauteous lady Thisby is certain.
And stands alone.
His countenance, like richest alchemy,
We were not born to sue, but to command,
The king is to be feared as the lion: dost thou
His knell rung out, his judgment, he was stirr'd
is to him advantage, or not dying, the time was
Their preparation is to-day by sea,
Once, sir? there was nothing done to her once.
to-morrow wed her, but it would better fit your honour
We will haste us.
Judas Maccabaeus, this swain, because of his great
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
was a sailor.
on him? I think the best way were to entertain him
on the voice of occupation and
And how achieved you these endowments, which
So says the bond: doth it not, noble judge?
And just against thy heart make thou a hole,
We'll all present ourselves, dis-horn the spirit,
fool: drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will
Exit ANDROMACHE
Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow.
And be no further harmful than in show.
To the great sender turns a sour offence,
of his council.
is that honour? air. A trim reckoning! Who hath it?
Exit BIONDELLO
And I'll salute your grace of York as mother,
Prepare her ears to hear a wooer's tale
Of whom he had this ring.
In it be memorised.
Excellent well, you are a fishmonger.
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
And never more have joy.
See you these clothes? say you see them not and
For your great seats now quit you of great shames.
Come away, come away, death,
Then swore he that he was a stranger here.
When he is here, even at thy solemn feast,
How now! How a dozen of virginities?
Come here to-day.
ACT V
Talk of court news, and we'll talk with them too,
That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
And 'tailor' cries, and falls into a cough,
Breathe you, my friends: well fought,
Exit
With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome.
Received and did deliver to our age
Take thy fair hour, Laertes, time be thine,
betwixt a benefit and an injury, I never found man
I have my wish.
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
Last night 'twas on mine arm, I kiss'd it:
God and Saint George! Richmond and victory!
I'll not remember you of my own lord,
I see virtue in his looks. If then the tree may be
By his attorneys-general to sue
the fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is
At your employment, at your service, sir,'
What's the news?
Refuse you for my judge, whom, yet once more,
born in an hour: if the heavens had been pleased,
Hamlet, Hamlet!
With them they think on? Things without all remedy
An old man.
Weak masters though ye be, I have bedimm'd
If you find a man there, he shall die a flea's death.
Thorough the hazards of this untrod state
Would make the great'st king double,--to be partner'd
I am your wife in all obedience.
Or lace for your cape,
The life o' the need: having found the backdoor open
'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death.--
What hast thou been?
Young fry of treachery!
The stars above us, govern our conditions,
forth more islands.
I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife
In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.
My brother's love, the devil, and my rage.
There was a time when all the body's members
Your brother he shall go along with me.
He'ld fetch us in, yet is't not probable
True, my good lord, I know you for no less.
I'll never do you wrong for your own sake:
The king hath of you.
A picture, sir. When comes your book forth?
Which never labour'd in their minds till now,
He it is that hath
as ancient writers do report, doth defile, so doth
I sing but after you.
A woman I forswore, but I will prove,
Good Clarence, do, sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
wit near him, that railed upon me till her pinked
He is as worthy for an empress' love
In what thou hadst to say: so, with good life
I hold you as a thing ensky'd and sainted.
Why, he hacked it with his dagger, and said he would
I think I shall command your welcome here,
We have your wrong rebuke. Do not believe
The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me,
Imprison'd thou didst painfully remain
Reverbs no hollowness.
'Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
We do deliver you. Get you therefore hence,
the breach of hers. Let thine own hands take away
Of any true decision. Nature craves
But if thou strive, poor soul, what art thou then?
But where thou art not known, why, there they show
The other found out there.
Aside to PORTIA
A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
bettered expectation than you must expect of me to
friends, if we should ne'er have need of 'em? they
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be released
Come, Marcus, let us go. Publius, follow me.
It is Posthumus' hand, I know't. Sirrah, if thou
Presently
And pray your mother's blessing. Turn, good lady,
he is a very valiant trencherman, he hath an
More learned than the ears--waving thy head,
From London by the king was I press'd forth,
To know the cause why music was ordain'd!
All France will be replete with mirth and joy,
And sworn unto the practises of France,
widow of Vitravio, Signior Placentio and his lovely
'Tis no matter for his swellings nor his
Under his chance: if we draw lots, he speeds,
By holy marriage: when and where and how
Oft have you--often have you thanks therefore--
not sprites.
I am about it, but indeed my invention
And with the brands fire the traitors' houses.
of voice? Is there no respect of place, persons, nor
I' the midst o' the body, idle and unactive,
They pass over the stage in order and state
But now 'tis odds beyond arithmetic,
Exit
Which art my near'st and dearest enemy?
Music
See you the fornicatress be removed:
So with his steerage shall your thoughts grow on,--
Truly, sir, the better for my foes and the worse
Than is your majesty: there's not, I think, a subject
are drown'd.
Fie! what a foolish duty call you this?
For that which is not in me?
But with his last attempt he wiped it out,
Take thou this note,
He is at Milford-Haven: read, and tell me
kingdom is stronger than it was at that time, and,
Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
My friends,
My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirr'd,
I need not add more fuel to your fire,
In Alexandria: here's the manner of 't:
Digging
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
Acknowledge then the king, and let me in.
Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think,
[Aside]  Scarce can I speak, my choler is so great:
So white, and such a traitor!
You'll not bear a letter for me, you rogue! you
Bring us the letter, call the messenger.
Never was waves nor wind more violent,
Faith, master, I am thinking of the poor men that
If he had been as you and you as he,
The rascal people, thirsting after prey,
The imperious seas breed monsters, for the dish
Doubtless he would have made a noble knight,
But certain issue strokes must arbitrate:
Your matrons and your maids, could not fill up
Ay, master.
BISHOP
You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
Sir king, all hail! the gods preserve you!
out of it you'll run again, rather than suffer
To land his legions all as soon as I,
It could not be judged, sir.
If Dauphin and the rest will be but ruled.
do not, call me villain and baffle me.
Now I'll tell you without asking: my master is the
For the latter end of his name.
Than some, whose tailors are as dear as yours,
And she is exceeding wise.
Enter GONERIL
Let me read them.
And though thou now confess thou didst but jest,
tell what thou art by inches, thou thing of no
cause. A word, my lord.
It needs not, nor it boots thee not, proud queen,
grace's tharborough: but I would see his own person
And made him to resign his crown perforce.
How does my queen? Thou stormest venomously,
meant, plain holy-thistle. You may think perchance
Laying his hand on his sword
endure my Lady Tongue.
No longer staying but to give the mother
Fell from their boughs and left me open, bare
And sold to slavery, of my redemption thence
neither choose whom I would nor refuse whom I
Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,
Richard loves Richard, that is, I am I.
Enter MONTJOY
Hail, many-colour'd messenger, that ne'er
Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night,
That only like a gulf it did remain
To quarrel with your great opposeless wills,
Edward the Duke of York, the Earl of Suffolk,
Aside
Why, a horse.
Alas, how fiery and how sharp he looks!
She hath been colted by him.
Your wondrous rare description, noble earl,
thirtieth of May next ensuing. Item, that the duchy
Enter ISABELLA
How does the king?
To pray for her? what, is she crying out?
My Lord of Warwick, here is--praised be God for it!
O my good lord, when I was like this maid,
A good direction, warlike sovereign.
I cannot rightly say. But since King Pericles,
We'll once more hear Orsino's embassy.
Go we, as well as haste will suffer us,
I care not for thy sword, I'll make thee known,
Let me but move one question to your daughter,
This must be known, which, being kept close, might
I love thee, and it is my love that speaks--
That beats upon the high shore of this world,
Captain Macmorris, when there is more better
day find it.
For our approach shall so much dare the field
With much ado at length have gotten leave
But I do wash his name out of my blood,
I shall, between this and supper, tell you most
mistress enforced, thy garments cut to pieces before
Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts: I find
As TROILUS is going out, enter, from the other side, PANDARUS
brought to Leonato's: I will go before and show
Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
That's a question: how shall we try it?
Creep in the minds and marrows of our youth,
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
hand? come, tell us your reason: what sayest thou to this?
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
Your grace is grown so pleasant.
We will speak further.
Exeunt
And I challenge law: attorneys are denied me,
I shall deliver so. Thanks to your highness.
This is the flower that smiles on every one,
My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
For this affair. Some four or five attend him,
mean pirates, and then there is the peril of waters,
clothes? Come away.
nothing, for we may live to have need of such a
Who wanteth food, and will not say he wants it,
I know, ere they will have me go to ward,
May reasonably die and never rise
Ay, lady, 'twas my word.
My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
For which the heavens, taking angry note,
To the madding of her lord. On her left breast
There hath been in Rome strange insurrections, the
By heavenly synod was devised,
For I have loaden me with many spoils,
And bears his blushing honours thick upon him,
Will she go now to bed?
If these be true spies which I wear in my head,
To answer their suspicion with their lives.
That Anne, my wife, is sick and like to die:
Which, as it seems, make thee.
Then God take mercy on brave Talbot's soul,
Thy master dies thy scholar: to do thus
Lay sleeping on his back: about his neck
A thousand blushing apparitions
Alas, poor fool! why do I pity him
drowning thyself! it is clean out of the way: seek
wise fellow, thou didst make tolerable vent of thy
But from the inward motion to deliver
Farewell, ancient lady, farewell,
With fairest flowers
Come home to me, and I will wait for you.
ACT V
Oxford, how haps it, in this smooth discourse,
Than seek a dispensation for his oath,
done! Answer, clerk.
That it enchants my sense: what will it be,
But do not look for further recompense
Or unto death, to do my country good.
thankfulness. For your own gifts, make yourselves
Senseless! not so.
cunning match have you made with this jest of the
SCENE XII. Egypt. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
Nay, she is worse, she is the devil's dam, and here
Three times to-day my foot-cloth horse did stumble,
speak truest not truer than Troilus.
And turns the sun to shade, alas! alas!
Environed he was with many foes,
And teach me how to curse mine enemies!
And that I would not for a cow, God save her!
Enter, on the walls, JOAN LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, REIGNIER, ALENCON, and Soldiers
Northampton and in Leicestershire, shalt find
See, here he comes, and I must ply my theme.
In any proportion or in any language.
Exit
Hark! a drum.
If not a present remedy, at least a patient
My lord, you'll bear us company?
your hovel.
A horned man's a monster and a beast.
My chastity's the jewel of our house,
Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA
have lost?
How! not women?
Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring,
For flesh and blood, sir, white and red, you shall
A journey to my loving Proteus.
plainly, Claudio undergoes my challenge, and either
Yet none of you would once plead for his life.
To make a shaking fever in your walls,
Why, I must die,
Like to the old Vice,
The better that your lordship please to ask.
Enter a Servingman
Royal Lear,
The flesh-fly blow my mouth. Hear my soul speak:
great eater of beef and I believe that does harm to my wit.
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
You're liars all.
The Dauphin's meaning and our embassy?
we see how mortal an unkindness is to them,
'Tis poor mad Tom.
so likes your music, that he desires you, for love's
O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
Which I mistrusted not. Farewell, therefore, Hero!
'Tis but thy name that is my enemy,
Be it a lordship, thou shalt have it for that word.
Whence came you, sir?
Revenges burn in them, for their dear causes
I am left out, for me nothing remains.
I do not like these several councils, I.
No more infected with my country's love
Receiving them from such a worthless post.
I call thee coward! I'll see thee damned ere I call
That, face to face and royal eye to eye,
Into your private chamber, we shall give you
That have been so bedazzled with the sun
I sold not Maine, I lost not Normandy,
Now judge what cause had Titus to revenge
Nay, by your leave, hold your hands, though I know
Were it better, I should rush in thus.
Enter MACBETH and BANQUO
As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony!
His wonted sleep under a fresh tree's shade,
Enter STANLEY
In which I have commended to his goodness
Enter a Messenger
As the Venus of the sky.
Came more and more and fought on part and part,
I have some business.
Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies
Which shows like grief itself, but is not so,
Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's
Turning mortal for thy love.
What think you of this page, my lord?
Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
Five thousand drops pays that.
Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?
Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor,
and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
Attending but the signal to begin.
And make it halt behind her.
deal with poison, I will possess him with
England ne'er had a king until his time.
If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies.
Lavinia, wert thou thus surprised, sweet girl,
We are true subjects to the king, King Edward.
Both meet to hear and answer such high things.
Who did strike out the light?
To the platform, masters, come, let's set the watch.
counterfeit of a man who hath not the life of a man:
My gentle Phebe bid me give you this:
With many bitter threats of biding there.
maintain his argument as well as any military man in
Eleven, sir.
Upon my life, I am a lord indeed
Since thou wert king--as who is king but thou?--
Brutus, bay not me,
Did Michael Cassio, when you woo'd my lady,
and require her to solicit your master's desires to
Enter MARK ANTONY with Attendants
The world, who of itself is peised well,
Have I given fire and rifted Jove's stout oak
But, so it is, it is not. Was this taken
Break up this capon.
The duke cannot deny the course of law:
Not you, correct him. My heart weeps to see him
I beseech your graces both to pardon me,
And blister you all o'er!
Say, Henry King of England, come into the court.
ways, wench, serve God. What, have you dined at home?
I have been feasting with mine enemy,
As if it some impartment did desire
Then, Buckingham, I do dismiss my powers.
And that which you did swear to keep for me,
A prophet to the fall of all our foes!
Take some remembrance of us, as a tribute,
unhappy brains for drinking: I could well wish
Giving letters
Good my liege,
Being prepared for land.
Which after hours give leisure to repent.
Ravish'd and wrong'd, as Philomela was,
'Have I no friend?' quoth he: he spake it twice,
Do so, for it is worth the listening to. These nine
Enter SEBASTIAN and Clown
Bon, bon, fort bon, Priscian! a little scratch'd,
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
Make no more offers, use no farther means,
Yes, captain, but with this acknowledgement,
Giving him papers
Was in his countenance. You he bade
Wilt thou accept of ransom? yea, or no.
Content. What is the wager?
His daughters seek his death: ah, that good Kent!
Bastard of Orleans, thrice welcome to us.
Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars.
If no inconstant toy, nor womanish fear,
Come, where be these gallants? who's at home?
Or hollowly put on.
But in her company there is a Moor,
No, you see, he is his argument that has his
Force her hence.
Flat treason 'gainst the kingly state of youth.
rouse the night-owl in a catch that will draw three
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
The next thing then she waking looks upon,
Which we, God knows, have turn'd another way,
That did never choose amiss.
I never read but England's kings have had
Hath set the women on to this complaint:
With eyes as red as new-enkindled fire,
my wish hath a preferment in 't.
dream of such a thing?
To be suspected of more tenderness
Show me thy thought.
Here comes your father: never make denial,
Malvolio, Malvolio, thy wits the heavens restore!
Are capable of this ambition,
Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your
Than your particular demands will touch it:
Words sweetly placed and modestly directed.
I thought you lord of more true gentleness.
You come to take your stand here, and behold
Is marching hitherwards, with him Prince John.
Exeunt
Fidele, sir.
So shall we stay, mocking intended game,
Hymen hath brought the bride to bed.
let us call thee devil!
I'll keep them, by this hand.
And, madam, there is order ta'en for you,
Exeunt
Against the French, that met them in their bent,
While shame full late sleeps out the afternoon.
He is your husband on a pre-contract:
The gods withhold me!
With what?
Pour in sow's blood, that hath eaten
Hie to high fortune! Honest nurse, farewell.
appoint them a place of meeting, wherein it is at
How honourable ladies sought my love,
Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him.
There's one grape yet, I am sure thy father drunk
Away! they'll kill us.
not by Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature
Did to his predecessors part withal.
Make dust our paper and with rainy eyes
Why, I am glad on't, this is well: stand up:
Then to Silvia let us sing,
That common chances common men could bear,
And willingly could waste my time in it.
If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
Here pleasures court mine eyes, and mine eyes shun them,
presently.
Made me exchange my state with Tranio,
He runs at IAGO  IAGO, from behind, stabs EMILIA, and exit
I have named him oft.
As 'twere retail'd to all posterity,
Patient Octavia plough thy visage up
[Within]  Who's within there? ho!
Which should undo more doing: ay, and thou,
Is he dispatch'd?
Upon the rising of the mountain-foot
purse. If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a
Her father is no better than an earl,
To see him any more,--cast your good counsels
ACT III
In saying so, you shall but say the truth.
And not seek a queen to make him rich:
I have a king here to my flatterer.
Enter THERSITES, solus
Is not this man jealous?
What, fought you with them all?
They needs must show themselves, which
then, or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
Wounds like a leaden sword.
With all the spots o' the world tax'd and debosh'd,
This goodly summer with your winter mix'd.
My princely father then had wars in France
Before herself, almost at fainting under
We two will leave you: but at dinner-time,
So, let her rest: and, madam, list to me,
[Within]  Open the door, secure, foolhardy king:
'Tis call'd the evil:
If fortune be not ours to-day, it is
And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade
But I shall lose the grounds I work upon.
To make him an example. All hope is gone,
For God forbid so many simple souls
And grows to something of great constancy,
Let me see, then.
Being counted falsehood, shall, as I express it,
And whirl along with thee about the globe.
In storms of fortune, for in her ray and brightness
Drew all such humours from him.
I will, my lord.
We house i' the rock, yet use thee not so hardly
Go in and cheer the town: we'll forth and fight,
Hyperion's curls, the front of Jove himself,
O my son, what theme?
Marry, sir, here's my drift,
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
O noble English. that could entertain
Cornets, and exeunt
Shall in these confines with a monarch's voice
Exeunt. Alarum, and chambers go off
I'll wait upon them: I am ready.
degree of a squire.
Your husband so much sweat. Cominius,
Say that you love me not, but say not so
A serpent stung me, so the whole ear of Denmark
[Aside]  Or rather, of stealing a cade of herrings.
We do, and vow to heaven and to his highness,
Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason
Prevented from a damned enterprise:
Yea, the whole consistory of Rome. You charge me
To whom I am so infinitely bound.
I'll bring you to your ship and so to Naples,
Exeunt
I only swore to study with your grace
For I have bills for money by exchange
Cursed be the hand that made these fatal holes!
Of a cut loaf to steal a shive, we know:
That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death.
The gentle Thetis, and anon behold
Banished, sir.
determinations, which is, indeed, to return to their
Will not wait pinion'd at your master's court,
Their harness studded all with gold and pearl.
Will he tell us what this show meant?
Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! not a word?
Nor will I sue, although the king have mercies
But shall you on your knowledge find this way?
As shall to thee blot out what wrongs were theirs
This, here before you.
Why, then, let them alone till they are sober: if
By heaven, Hubert, I am almost ashamed
Appear before us? We'll yet enlarge that man,
Not by a public minister of justice,
Than two tens to a score.
if I were the parson. One in ten, quoth a'! An we
And in thy thought o'er-run my former time,
her very description.
Exit
Which, by their graces, I will keep.
SCENE II. The Same. A street.
And he that's once denied will hardly speed.
So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.
Betwixt the prince and beggar: I have said
All in an hour.
So should we you, if you should be our king.
Shame to the Duke of Burgundy and thee!
Exit POINS
Which I left with her?
Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO
Whither away, or where is thy abode?
Our chimneys were blown down, and, as they say,
of profession: one would think it were Mistress
And when we have our naked frailties hid,
Now in his life, against your holy oath?
Do not forget: this visitation
To a most base and vile-concluded peace.
sweet, deliver this paper into the royal hand of the
Believe't not lightly--though I go alone,
Stand, ho! Speak the word along.
The one and other Diomed embraces.
Have hither march'd to your endamagement:
And tell the legions 'I can never win
It is.
It is qui, quae, quod: if you forget your 'quies,'
Tush, none but minstrels like of sonneting!
To-morrow will I wear it on my helm,
Alarums. Enter KING RICHARD III
And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall!
He shall be welcome too. Where is his son,
Therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge.
Posthumus anchors upon Imogen,
Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though plague,
The heads of all thy brother cardinals,
reports for me.
All which time
That you and I should meet upon such terms
Ay, his breast:
fifteen i' the litter: and you may know by my size
Am I like such a fellow?
Why, shall the people give
You cannot show me.
That my most jealous and too doubtful soul
For though you lay here in this goodly chamber,
So that, by this, you would not have him die.
Who would be thence that has the benefit of access?
For what, I pray thee?
You guard like men, 'tis well: but, by your leave,
Hath not that honour in't it had, for where
So, good night unto you all.
public shame as the rest of the court can possibly devise.'
I never saw so huge a billow, sir,
There all is marr'd, there lies a cooling card.
Re-enter PAULINA
O world, thou wast the forest to this hart,
No, I'll nor sell nor give him: lend you him I will
So full of ugly sights, of ghastly dreams,
Do you intend it?
That island of England breeds very valiant
speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge.
A' shall not tread on me,
By the same token, you are a bawd.
I'll muster up my friends, and meet your grace
She is the weeping welkin, I the earth:
At thy choice, then:
Discomfited great Douglas, ta'en him once,
with a medlar: then it will be the earliest fruit
Those centuries to our aid: the rest will serve
The greatest of your having lacks a half
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet
Or hand of man hath done, therefore I keep it
Little are we beholding to your love,
bibble babble.
the anatomy.
Men fear'd the French would prove perfidious,
Madam, I'll sing.
At Beaufort's pride, at Somerset's ambition,
When our most learned doctors leave us and
You knot of mouth-friends I smoke and lukewarm water
As all the world is cheered by the sun,
Steps aside
been cozened and beaten too. If it should come to
Is this thy cunning, thou deceitful dame?
Made a foul blot, if tall, a lance ill-headed,
And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
Ergo, Master Launcelot. Talk not of Master
That I should yet absent me from your bed:
And hinder them from what this ecstasy
Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters
I call'd thee then poor shadow, painted queen,
Wouldst thou have practised on me for thy use,
It shall be full of poise and difficult weight
Then cursed she Hastings, then cursed she Buckingham,
And in this state she gallops night by night
a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross
Though many dearer, in this bloody fray.
And I will boot thee with what gift beside
like those that under hot ardent zeal would set
Under the service of a child as soon
How now, nuncle! Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!
eternal. You shall hear I am run away: know it
Enter, with drum and colours, ALBANY, GONERIL, and Soldiers
Go, Cleomenes,
invisible within the circumference.
O the gods! what's the matter?
You live that shall cry woe for this after.
Stood here observing him: some strange commotion
fire, being burnt i' the hand for stealing of sheep.
are your parts: and I am to entreat you, request
When, Lucius, when? awake, I say! what, Lucius!
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
What answer shall I make to this base man?
Fated to the purpose did Antonio open
That you aptly will suppose
Bleat softly then, the butcher hears you cry.
For I am he am born to tame you Kate,
So every scope by the immoderate use
Caius, I am come to fetch you home. I am sworn of
Conceal them, or thou diest.
in a book, he hath not eat paper, as it were, he
Already have I been false to Valentine
To scourge the ingratitude that despiteful Rome
in his own chamber--I mean, the lines of my body are
Myself, Belarius, that am Morgan call'd,
Happy the parents of so fair a child,
Misused ere used, by time misused o'erpast.
Exeunt
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Ere thou relieve the beggar, give to dogs
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive:
is more hotter in France than there.
Makes me most forward in this noble presence
To think your father, by some accident,
And, now I am remember'd, scorn'd at me:
shuffle, to hedge and to lurch, and yet you, rogue,
lieutenant tonight watches on the court of
And in our sight they three were taken up
Even from the east to the west!
It speaks against her with the other proofs.
How now!
knower, and Patroclus is a fool.
Hast thou conspired with thy brother too,
Let me be no assistant for a state,
Enter ISABELLA and MARIANA
Yes, sir, I have indeed.
An if you please to call it a rush-candle,
Rive your concealing continents, and cry
good man is to have you understand me that he is
And palter in the shifts of lowness, who
So, now I have mine own again, be gone,
Are you contented to resign the crown?
She loves thee, boy, too well to do thee harm.
Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start, eyes!
'A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus
SCENE I. A public place.
Was it not to refresh the mind of man
And bootless make the breathless housewife churn,
Exeunt
And what he will, I humbly yield unto.
of fear and cold heart, will he to the king and lay
for thou art not so long by the head as
with the fashions, full of wingdalls, sped with
Which now goes too free-footed.
'Tis Cinna, I do know him by his gait,
lesser linen. My father named me Autolycus, who
He will chastise me.
Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds,
It is well.
Or climb my palace, till from forth this place
And, in a word, but even now worth this,
Get you home
I will lay trust upon thee, and thou shalt find a
There is some soul of goodness in things evil,
Good morrow, good Lieutenant: I am sorry
To place upon the volume of your deeds,
O heaven, O earth, bear witness to this sound
Suspicion of the deed.
No, it begins again.
Why take we hands, then?
That in the rescue of Lavinia
see a rose, and she were a rose indeed, if she had but--
But is not this braver? Let them kiss one another,
niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it
scarce to be worth talking of: therefore draw, for
gold again: fourscore ducats at a sitting!
Adieu: be vigitant, I beseech you.
Besides, I have some business in the town.
If ever I remember to be holy,
This is the gentleman I told your ladyship
O, I know where you are: nay, 'tis true: there was
Come, come, thou'lt do thy message, wilt thou not?
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Sheathing the steel in my adventurous body.
Welcome to Troy! now, by Anchises' life,
He shall not die, so much we tender him.
Who smirch'd thus and mired with infamy,
Nay, it shall ne'er be said, while England stands,
Must fetch him in the papers.
A kinder value of the people than
Quite vanquish'd him: then burst his mighty heart,
that I wear, owe no man hate, envy no man's
And not a hair upon a soldier's head
Quail, crush, conclude, and quell!
An untimely ague
A thousand pound, Ha! a million: thy love is worth
Your carriage from the court. My noble mistress,
And never to my red-look'd anger be
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you,
I thank you, good people: there shall be no money,
Which men are best inclined.
To glad your ear, and please your eyes.
the wars do as every sick man in his bed, wash every
This is the letter to your ladyship.
For what he has he gives, what thinks he shows,
Would set me free from this unhallow'd place,
He then that is not furnish'd in this sort
Esteem him as a lamb, being compared
Where's Poins, Hal?
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
I know no answer.
Let him go up into the public chair,
For divers unknown reasons. I beseech you,
If it be that--
This is the greatest error of all the rest: the man
Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
Do so: farewell.
You shall not need to fear me.
They grow still too, from all parts they are coming,
And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite
Nay, now thou goest from Fortune's office to
Friend, look to 't.
What?
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
sack as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie,
is damned.
If he be credulous and trust my tale,
The gain I seek is, quiet in the match.
Art not afeard?
With thy religious truth and modesty,
and children are even now to be afresh lamented.
And in this mood will give us any thing.
We must bear all. O hard condition,
Our strong arms be our conscience, swords our law.
Down on thy knees, thank the holy gods as loud
And they, well mock'd, depart away with shame.
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
And so of these. Which is the natural man,
Would, Polydote, thou hadst not done't! though valour
In rank and not-to-be endured riots. Sir,
And slaughter'd those that were the means to help him,
Farewell, good Launcelot.
Oxford, redoubted Pembroke, Sir James Blunt,
kersey boot-hose on the other, gartered with a red
That fame may cry you loud: I say, farewell.
Why, wherefore ask you this?
Indeed, the French may lay twenty French crowns to
Our duty is so rich, so infinite,
Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk,
Sennet. Exeunt
O, a cherubim
Are you at leisure, holy father, now,
With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder:
He wonders to what end you have assembled
pikes with a vice, and they are dangerous weapons for maids.
Had not you come upon your cue, my lord
I play'd the cheater for thy father's hand,
knave with fortune, that she should scratch you, who
If he revenge it not, yet will his friends,
My lord, 'tis nothing.
Conceive when after many moody thoughts
The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
Guiderius had
that let me inform you.
Enter a Servant
A shrewd one to's.
So I will, my liege, as I live.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows.
Sits down
So then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo?
For saying nothing, when, I am very sure,
And pray the Roman gods confound you both!
Enter a Soldier, seeking TIMON
have neither words nor measure, and for the other, I
well endeavours to trust to himself and to live
And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.
I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
I shall be furnish'd to inform you rightly
Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence,
were troth-plight to her.
Exit PANDARUS. An alarum
The name of Agincourt. Yet sit and see,
Your banish'd honours and restore yourselves
How now! what news?
Forsaken your pernicious faction
His father revell'd in the heart of France,
Hath a distracted and most wretched being,
ANTIPHOLUS
son-in-law's house, Sir James Cromer, and strike off
One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,
With such delightful pleasing harmony.
he be not well, that he comes not home.
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
Sir John hangs with me, and thou knowest he is no
And with my child my joys are buried.
Or springhalt reign'd among 'em.
By the rebound of yours, a grief that smites
So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,
And fightest with the sword of Deborah.
Come hither, count, do you know these women?
Exit
When you are waspish.
which, my instruction shall serve to naturalize
Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
Sea-water shalt thou drink, thy food shall be
We have had pastimes here and pleasant game:
Is pleased you shall to the Tower, till you know
Shall seize this prey out of his father's hands.
Vows for thee broke deserve not punishment.
And now prepare your throats. Lavinia, come,
arithmetic but her brain to set down her reckoning:
Do so conjointly meet, let not men say
It's supper-time, my lord,
poor house, as your pearl in your foul oyster.
The sun was not so true unto the day
after gift, smelling so sweetly, all musk, and so
One general tongue unto us, this good man,
cuff was but to knock at your ear, and beseech
Enter KING HENRY V, GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND, and Attendants
Of this strange nature that a thing inseparate
Were then but subjects, being now a subject,
Can a woman rail thus?
and moves with its own organs: it lives by that
Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms,
Or shall we give the signal to our rage
But 'tis usurp'd: alack the heavy day,
Dispose of you.
It makes us, or it mars us, think on that,
The Bastard of Orleans with him is join'd,
And otherwise will Henry ne'er presume.
huge man, I should fear to drink at meals,
That you foresee not what impediments
They are dissolved: hang 'em!
Antonio, I am married to a wife
Enter MARINA, with a basket of flowers
This seeming brow of justice, did he win
Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland
And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank,
I am your wife, if you will marry me,
A Florentine more kind and honest.
By this, had thought been past. Alive or dead?
During my life, and, to confirm his goodness,
extenuated, wherein he was worthy, nor his offences
Hold, Rosaline, this favour thou shalt wear,
Which, since they are of you, and odious,
Than man could give him, he died fearing God.
But since my landing I have understood
Exit one to Abbess
Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on
And you too, sir.
A mistress's command. Wear this, spare speech,
And, if you will, tell what hath happened,
But that I seek occasion how to rise,
Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honour
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
Love, love, nothing but love, still more!
A saucy stranger in his court to mart
That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear.
Then is all safe, the anchor's in the port.
Note it not you, Thaisa?
Antonio, O my dear Antonio!
I consanguineous? am I not of her blood?
Although my seal be stamped in his face.
Not out of your apparel, and yet out of your suit.
Thou wilt perform my bidding.
A shout and flourish
Thou hast faced many things.
O blessed bond of board and bed!
As stout and proud as he were lord of all,
Like a kind host, the Dauphin and his powers:
SCENE III. The forest.
fighter, though now a man of peace.
I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as
It is fifteen years since I saw my country: though
Still in this fashion, colour, ornament,
a smack o' the contrary. If ever thou be'st bound
But worn a bait for ladies.
The very life-blood of our enterprise,
I ne'er again shall see her. O thou mine heir
betray nice wenches, that would be betrayed without
And lawful meaning in a lawful act,
Soldiers, away with him!
And what art thou, thou idle ceremony?
To the Fool
Exeunt PROCULEIUS and Soldiers
By your leave.
And that thou mayst perceive how well I like it,
Where I was wont to feed you with my blood,
Unless another,
Yonder is Silvia, and Silvia's mine.
were endowed with all that Adam bad left him before
And have the dates in contempt.
more, and, sweet my child, let them be men of good
Flourish. Exeunt KING RICHARD II, QUEEN, DUKE OF AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, and BAGOT
fancies' pricked in't for a feather: a monster, a
SCENE VI. The same.
Was either pitied in him or forgotten.
That like a lion foster'd up at hand,
Which often, since my here-remain in England,
Madam, we'll dance.
The villain would not stand me.
And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour.
In heedfull'st reservation to bestow them,
If it please me, madam, what then?
At sea! what mother?
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
Sir Thurio, fear not you: I will so plead
most coldest that ever turned up ace.
Pray you, sir, was't not the wise woman of
great, or the mighty, or the huge, or the
He must, he is, he cannot but be wise:
They would have stolen away, they would, Demetrius,
That for thyself: I will not so presume
Without some pleasure now. What sport tonight?
Were not you then as cruel as the sentence
Who's the next heir of Naples?
A little touch of Harry in the night.
What, to perverseness? you uncivil lady,
Exeunt MISTRESS QUICKLY and ROBIN
The rest--hark in thine ear--as black as incest:
Why, then, we are awake: let's follow him
She giveth SATURNINUS a letter
If love have touch'd you, nought remains but so,
Do as the heavens have done, forget your evil,
Nought's had, all's spent,
And what was he?
away where my hogshead of wine is, or I'll turn you
You not your child well loving, yet I find
Spurns enviously at straws, speaks things in doubt,
O earth, I will befriend thee more with rain,
Dash'd all to pieces. O, the cry did knock
Than to be thirsty after tottering honour,
Sings heavy music to thy timorous soul,
Out of our easiness and childish pity
Alarums. Enter KING HENRY and forces, EXETER, and others
I thank them for their tender loving care,
Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
Famous in Caesar's praises, no whit less
Exposing it--but, O, the harder heart!
DON
Searching the window for a flint, I found
With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March,
We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
And none of them been worn, and, for a name,
To LAVINIA
Exeunt Citizens
The packet, Cromwell.
As thus, to drop them still upon one place,
Till Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster,
Which comes to me in name of fault, I must not
Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
fragment, some slender sort of his remainder: the
To many lords and ladies, there will be
'Ay, by gogs-wouns,' quoth he, and swore so loud,
Die, perish! Might but my bending down
I am thus bold to put your grace in mind
Un peu, madame.
Putting it straight in expedition.
I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy.
Be quiet, people. Wherefore throng you hither?
By sight of what I have, your noble company.
Told our intents before, which once disclosed,
His old betrothed but despised,
All viands that I eat do seem unsavoury.
My face is but a moon, and clouded too.
For we no longer are defensible.
Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
I do love Cassio well, and would do much
--Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
Canterbury,
PRINCE HENRY draws it out, and finds it to be a bottle of sack
wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a
bastinado and made Lucifer cuckold and swore the
Silvia: did not I bid thee still mark me and do as I
Within
And our affairs from England come too late:
Come, trouble not yourself. Good Master Fenton,
I'll see if I can get my husband's ring,
Indeed, a sheep doth very often stray,
Hoodman comes! Portotartarosa
To have mistrusted her: yet, O my daughter!
A stage where every man must play a part,
A sequester from liberty, fasting and prayer,
and so shall Trinculo.
I think 'twas Soto that your honour means.
The will, the will! we will hear Caesar's will.
Thou art no friend to God or to the king:
it quickly, I'll call Sir Toby the whilst.
Those that are in extremity of either are abominable
And his unkindness may defeat my life,
He is not guilty of her coming hither.
They all stand ceremoniously looking on TIMON
By the good aid that I of you shall borrow,
Within this hour bring me word 'tis done,
The queen is put in anger. You're excused:
Go thou away:
They vex me past my patience! Pray you, pass on:
Save you, friend Cassio!
Most disobedient and refractory.
Kneels
quarrels you may say he is wise, for either he
grace! Some say he shall be stoned, but that death
my uttermost power: he is not-God be praised and
'Twas her two sons that murder'd Bassianus,
Are suitors to you.
Of double ducats, stolen from me by my daughter!
letter: I have ere now, sir, been better known to
[Within]  Cry, Trojans!
And shrewd and froward, so beyond all measure
Feast with the best, and welcome to my house:
Exit
friends no wrong, for I have none to lament me, the
My tongue should stumble in mine earnest words,
Of who she but bid follow.
I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with
No, not much moved:
O, what a world of vile ill-favor'd faults
Many a time he danced thee on his knee,
He, more incensed against your majesty
The time will come when thou shalt wish for me
element shows to him as it doth to me, all his
I would have had thee there, and here again,
Marry, farewell! I pray you, sir, what saucy
I durst, my lord, to wager she is honest,
Have with you.
To rest without a spot for evermore.
Royal cheer, I warrant you.
get us some excellent music, for to-morrow night we
How I may formally in person bear me
Your leave and favour to return to France,
Or made gift of it, my father's eye
No, gracious lord, except I cannot do it.
And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
SCENE V. The palace.
him.
Masters, play here, I will content your pains,
A thought of added honour torn from Hector.
To be revenged on him that slew my husband.
Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand
But that's no welcome: understand more clear,
That seeks his praise more than he fears his peril,
Struck the main-top! O Posthumus! alas,
And I will be revenged on them all.
Arm'd as we are, let's stay within this house.
By means whereof the towns each day revolted.
With those that I saw suffer: a brave vessel,
Did push it out of farther question.
Amen.
To satisfy your highness and the entreaties
The fractions of her faith, orts of her love,
And that unbodied figure of the thought
His deputy anointed in His sight,
Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke,
For Valentine, I need not cite him to it:
turn'd coward
unpitifully, methought.
house is better than this rain-water out o' door.
And there repose you for this night.
shalt accompany us to the place, where we will, not
Into strong shudders and to heavenly agues
more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child
Desires for sport, and frailty, as men have?
hath found him already.
By all your good leaves, gentlemen, here I'll make
And blindfold death not let me see my son.
Steering with due course towards the isle of Rhodes,
More grave and wrinkled than the aims and ends
In this appeal as thou art all unjust,
When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?
This prison where I live unto the world:
I am his first-born son, that was the last
Limehouse, their dear brothers, are able to endure.
Caesar than you shall do to Brutus. The question of
The other lords, like lions wanting food,
And very rich: but thou'rt too much my friend,
That's a deep story of a deeper love:
The drug he gave me, which he said was precious
therefore tremble and depart.
Against an oath: the truth thou art unsure
Enter LAVINIA
Ay, be so, good Touchstone.
I must perforce. Farewell.
Was cursed instrument of his decease.
therefore deny it not.
A root of ancient envy. If Jupiter
And she whom mighty kingdoms court'sy to,
I pray you, uncle, give me this dagger.
To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret-castle,
The regent hath with Talbot broke his word
Forwearied in this action of swift speed,
I pray you, tell me what you meant by that.
naming punishes me with the remembrance of that
Now falls on Priam.
No more, I pray thee: I am half afeard
This bond expires, I do expect return
kill'd him.
Bardolph, am I not fallen away vilely since this last
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
I thank you, sir: that's all.
By their own fear or sloth.
How now, my as fair as noble ladies,--and the moon,
You must report to the Volscian lords, how plainly
Thou speak'st truth.
Hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites
Had death been French, then death had died to-day.
I seem'd his follower, not partner, and
Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow.
Which he treads on at noon: but I do wonder
Exeunt all but HAMLET
Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down!
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
Shame and confusion! all is on the rout,
Upon this coast, I warrant you.
And bless us with her former qualities.
it with stamped coin, not stabbing steel, therefore
Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought,
I kiss the instrument of their pleasures.
none but good house-holders, yeoman's sons, inquire
What, ho! my lord!
Is coming towards me, and my inward soul
Were purchased by the merit of the wearer!
Have I done since I went.
But he fell to himself again, and sweetly
Sure, these are but imaginary wiles
Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and STANLEY
One sudden foil shall never breed distrust.
Then I lie not.
So be it!
They call him Ajax.
Jack, then am I no two-legged creature.
and thou shalt be welcome.
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them,
and puts me her white hand to his cloven chin--
The king's a beggar, now the play is done:
Excite the mortified man.
Do not extort thy reasons from this clause,
Have I caught thee, my heavenly jewel? Why, now let
Shakes like a thing unfirm? O Cicero,
laughing-stocks to other men's humours, I desire you
The more and less came in with cap and knee,
And thy no greater father.
And yet the king not privy to my drift,
Hubert shall be your man, attend on you
Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.
These hands are not more like.
Wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept since?
Exhalest this vapour-vow, in thee it is:
Washes it off, and sprinkles in your faces
The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
Ay, sir.
an thou wilt not, why, then, be enemies with me too.
wages followest thy master, thy master for wages
The earldom of Hereford, and the moveables
Good morrow, all.
And batters down himself: what should I say?
run away from the Jew, I should be ruled by the
I mean the whispered ones, for they are yet but
Do't, knight: I'll write thee a challenge: or I'll
For look how fresh she looks! They were too rough
Look behind you, my lord.
Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman,
My lord, this is a fond and desperate creature,
I knew him, and I know him, so I leave him
But fly you must, uncurable discomfit
Every man,
Yet do I not use my horse for my mistress, or any
All hearts against us: Edmund, I think, is gone,
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
How shall we find the concord of this discord?
To bring me where to speak with Madam Silvia.
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
And thou shalt die for't.
No less importing than our general good,
Do not desire to see this letter.
Very like, one of them
his wife, 'tis none of his own getting. Horns?
I'm out of patience.
Was kinder to his father than my daughters
God be wi' you, my lord! we came but to tell you
I have seen and heard of, for your voices have
And justly and religiously unfold
But never more be officer of mine.
Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog, and that
Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower,
For queen, a very caitiff crown'd with care,
KING CLAUDIUS puts LAERTES' hand into HAMLET's
I cannot choose but laugh, to think how she tickled
fall to: if you can mock a leek, you can eat a leek.
for the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not.
Nay, then,
That oft in field, with targe and shield, did make
thy lower part where thy nose stands. By mine
Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood,--
Give me my principal, and let me go.
If he love Caesar, all that he can do
Thou, it seems, that calls for company to
To use between your strangeness and his pride,
He is in heaven, where thou shalt never come.
O, fellow, come, the song we had last night.
O, who can give an oath? where is a book?
She will, she will, justice hath liquored her. We
There is no harm intended to your person,
A stand where you may make the fairest shoot.
Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
Together, have one dust, yet reverence,
The salt in them is hot.
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
Make motion through my lips, and my arm'd knees,
If Talbot but survive thy treachery.
do, chapels had been churches and poor men's
Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!
Soon fall to ruin,--your noble self,
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
spoil of me.
As loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
I am for you.
Enter BENVOLIO and ROMEO
But why did he swear he would come this morning, and
It were a tedious difficulty, I think,
In angel whiteness beat away those blushes,
bear this significant
Wanting the manage of unruly jades.
ACT I
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'
be many that they have loved, they know not
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY, SIMPLE, and RUGBY
Answer as I call you. Nick Bottom, the weaver.
All that he is hath reference to your highness.
a boy, as a squash is before 'tis a peascod, or a
To some more fitter place, and that with speed.
Re-enter SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, and GONZALO
Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff
Comes to the entertainer--
limb or joint, shall pass Pompey the Great, the
Thanks, dear my lord.
To ORLANDO
If you'll go fetch him,
What should he say, but as the cardinal?
Thou thy worldly task hast done,
Ay, or more than we should seek after, for we know
Power as he was a counsellor to try him,
What, what, my lord! are you so choleric
Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace
Please it your majesty, this is the man
And think, perchance, they'll sell, if not,
O Valentine, this I endure for thee!
Spring with my tears! be aidant and remediate
Courtiers as free, as debonair, unarm'd,
Brutus is wise, and, were he not in health,
Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty.
Share the advice betwixt you, if both gain, all
Of nature's sale-work. 'Od's my little life,
When majesty stoops to folly. Reverse thy doom,
Destroying them for wealth.
Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch.
He's but a mad lord, and nought but humour sways him.
And himself. Not I,
Why then 'tis mine, if but by Warwick's gift.
That's one of them.
But like a foul mis-shapen stigmatic,
Take her away, I do not like her now,
His confession is taken, and it shall be read to his
Almost at point to enter.
Who long'st, like me, to see thy lord, who long'st,--
the king's mess: 'tis a chough, but, as I say,
To jump a body with a dangerous physic
Safe-conducting the rebels from their ships!
To the Queen
In bootless prayer have they been held up,
O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
How now! what means death in this rude assault?
For Mowbray and myself are like two men
There is something in the wind, that we cannot get in.
Indeed, madam, I seem so.
Spake he so doubtfully, thou couldst not feel his meaning?
Enter QUEEN, Ladies, and CORNELIUS
Do more than counterpoise a full third part
What think you, if he were convey'd to bed,
Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,
And therefore let me be thus bold with you
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
No, I serve not thy master.
Upon my death the French can little boast,
His hour is almost past.
And sure, unless you send some present help,
Discover you abroad?
A lousy knave, to have his gibes and his mockeries!
Some subtilties o' the isle, that will not let you
Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
In that's no changeling, and I must excuse
between you.
The knight opposed.
'tis shame for us all: so God sa' me, 'tis shame to
And in this private plot be we the first
What stays had I but they? and they are gone.
But first I beg my pardon, the young lord
Were not this glorious casket stored with ill:
seem to scorch me up like a burning-glass! Here's
die when thou wilt, if manhood, good manhood, be
fit.
I have not from your eyes that gentleness
And, fairy-like, to-pinch the unclean knight,
sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
Get on your cloak, and haste you to Lord Timon,
But I must needs to the Tower, my lords?
You must to Parthia: your commission's ready,
Men's prayers then would seek you, not their fears.
emulation, nor the musician's, which is fantastical,
Hearing alarums at our chamber-doors.
Will you, indeed?
So that, betwixt their tides and low names,
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE and THOMAS MOWBRAY
Too true, and bought his climbing very dear.
Of younger spirits, whose apprehensive senses
the lion and the spots of thy kindred were jurors on
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
sole dominator of Navarre, my soul's earth's god,
To propagate their states: amongst them all,
Exit
should he do here?
Nor make replies of loathness: take the hint
Sir, those cold ways,
And better used, would make her sainted spirit
If not with vantage, as Demetrius',
And they are often tarred over with the surgery of
Exeunt
Absolute queen.
Crying, 'That's good that's gone.' Our rash faults
you are mine, I am yours: I give away myself for
fortunes against any lay worth naming, this
And, in the number, thee that wishest shame!
Don John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
And then to crave a league of amity,
Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him
How long is't now since last yourself and I
your lordship.
Some carry-tale, some please-man, some slight zany,
And gave the tongue a helpful ornament,
Hail!
No new device to beat this from his brains?
I do relent: what would thou more of man?
am dejected, I am not able to answer the Welsh
I wrote him Imogen was slain: 'tis strange:
And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance,
That you a world of curses undergo,
All the quarters that they know
What kind of man he is.
Inferring arguments of mighty force.
Marriage is a matter of more worth
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
as I said, but more than that, he loved her: for
It was his word: O, he would miss it rather
And put these same into young Arthur's hand,
For Richard, the first son's heir, being dead,
And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps,
The exhalations whizzing in the air
hid me in these woods and durst not peep out, for
duke's wrestler, which Charles in a moment threw him
scall, scurvy cogging companion, the host of the Garter.
Alack that Leonine was so slack, so slow!
Who worship dirty gods.
gentlemen.
Or, if you'ld ask, remember this before:
What hath she done, prince, that can soil our mothers?
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
Thou art not ignorant what dear good will
What wouldst thou have with me?
You conclude that my master is a shepherd, then,
Where as thou know'st, against the face of death,
Blanket my loins: elf all my hair in knots,
Within the infant rind of this small flower
You have misled a prince, a royal king,
Is the king dead? the empire unpossess'd?
BRABANTIO appears above, at a window
Loves for his own ends, not for you.
With aged cramps, and more pinch-spotted make them
With clamourous demands of date-broke bonds,
Lady, vouchsafe to listen what I say.
enough than for us to undergo any difficulty imposed.
That very dogs disdain'd: and in this habit
Against whose fury and unmatched force
SCENE II. OLIVIA's house.
Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
A soldier's a man,
Hail, royal prince!
An he had been a dog that should have howled thus,
For his return.
Lie where the light foam the sea may beat
Thy friends are fled to wait upon thy foes,
Did tell me of you, bade me trust you, but
Will I for ever and my faction wear,
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
Against the state and profit of this land,
His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
Trim gallants, full of courtship and of state.
Well, you'll still be too forward.
Throng many doubtful hollow-hearted friends,
You are moved, prince, let us depart, I pray you,
Note, notes, forsooth, and nothing.
But I had rather fast from all four days
Lightens my humour with his merry jests.
Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
Is not more loathed than an effeminate man
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
For good Lord Titus' innocence in all,
May be the amorous count solicits her
But William of Hatfield died without an heir.
Will not permit mine eyes once to behold
'Tis true: where is he, Denny?
Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house,
before the intended wedding,--for in the meantime I
Enter KING EDWARD IV and a Huntsman with him
He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness
And bid her come hither.
Enter BIONDELLO
Even as men wrecked upon a sand, that look to be
come, come, trib, trib.
Be wisely definite, nor i' the appetite,
Then follow thou thy desperate sire of Crete,
Hang all the husbands
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again,
Cassio did top her, ask thy husband else.
nor no penance, but a' must fast three days a week.
To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue--
Exeunt
For such a business, therefore am I found
Are arms to princes, and bring joys to subjects.
Think'st thou I am an executioner?
Know, that to-morrow the last of many battles
Enter BENEDICK
But, on my honour, she was charged with nothing
Be strong in whore, allure him, burn him up,
From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon
thou, that my master is become a notable lover?
Is that the elder, and art thou the heir?
So help me every spirit sanctified,
The air, a charter'd libertine, is still,
He thinks that you should bear me on your shoulders.
Thy Brutus bid me give it thee, and I
prove a good soldier-breeder: shall not thou and I,
and then rejourn the controversy of three pence to a
As 'twere to banish their affects with him.
Enter YORK, SALISBURY, and WARWICK
Cannot conceive nor name thee!
What say'st thou? wilt thou be of our consort?
your old virginity, is like one of our French
Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? I
But are they, Ariel, safe?
To cope malicious censurers, which ever,
Of heavenly oaths, vow'd with integrity.
grow to, he had a kind of taste, well, my conscience
That kings should let their ears hear their
Yet there's as little justice as at land:
I live to look upon their tragedy.
Whom best I love I cross, to make my gift,
Let me in safety raise me from my knees
What stature is she of?
Upon his face an ocean of salt tears,
Exit
Prick him down, Antony.
Which is the Queen of Egypt?
Will show you his estate.
Anon I'll give thee more instructions.
So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
On whom it will not, so, yet still 'tis just.
Tu-who, a merry note,
My crack'd one to more care. Have with you, boys!
Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts,
And here my brother, weeping at my woes.
There to be crowned England's royal king:
Exit COSTARD, running
Those,--for their parents were exceeding poor,--
What was't to you?
With sad unhelpful tears, and with dimm'd eyes
shotten herring. There live not three good men
What, neither?
Why, why is this?
To the Secretary
That he hath breathed in my dishonour here.
O plague right well prevented! so will you say when
loves the whore there, might send that Greekish
Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
SCENE I. Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
And call upon my soul within the house,
You keep by land
Though ink be made of gall.
By your allowance, which if you should, the fault
If this fond Love were not a blinded god?
Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is
To send it me.
Hector? where's Hector? I will none but Hector.
What is amiss plague and infection mend!
When shall we see again?
him, then entertain him, then forswear him, now weep
Ha! I like not that.
Exit
Go back again, and be new beaten home?
Of what hath come to pass: for when she saw--
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
Let go.
off.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute, No more.
O, sir, let it not trouble you.
Philip, good old sir Robert's wife's eldest son.
not yet: the roof of this court is too high to be
With so eternal and so fix'd a soul.
By flight I'll shun the danger which I fear.
Which he to seek of me again, perforce,
Spent more in her defence. But, worthy Hector,
For if such actions may have passage free,
There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,
Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick,
Give place: by heaven, thou shalt rule no more
Is't so, indeed.
Exeunt
I your lady, Sir John! alas, I should be a pitiful lady!
Deep malice makes too deep incision,
But, master, if I had been the sexton, I would have
'Tis but fortune, all is fortune. Maria once told
What Tranio did, myself enforced him to,
thing handsome about him. Bring him away. O that
But poverty could never draw 'em from me,
Pages, and footboys.
gentlewoman to Hero.
Expedient manage must be made, my liege,
Thou dost not wish more help from England, coz?
Here is no use for gold.
But, for those earthly faults, I quit them all,
marriage binds and blood breaks: a poor virgin,
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
Your colt's tooth is not cast yet.
Sir, make me not your story.
You are an alchemist, make gold of that.
O master! what a strange infection
Stay not to question, for the watch is coming,
What! doth my uncle Burgundy revolt?
bonnet: then, if ever thou darest acknowledge it, I
In sooth, I know not why I am so sad:
Yesterday took: Troy holds him very dear.
DON
'Coram.'
Where hast thou been preserved? where lived? how found
Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
And Tybalt calls, and then on Romeo cries,
Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own price.
A halter pardon him! and hell gnaw his bones!
Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note,
Which oft our stage hath shown, and, for their sake,
Which first was mine own king: and here you sty me
Of every beardless vain comparative,
I heard him swear,
Antonio never yet was thief or pirate,
Take the boy to you: he so troubles me,
A puffed man?
Enter KING RICHARD II, JOHN OF GAUNT, with other Nobles and Attendants
Ay. Desdemona.
Exit Clown
Before I see thee seated in that throne
For Thurio, he intends, shall wed his daughter,
Which is but cold, inflaming love i' thy bosom,
sure to be ransomed, and a many poor men's lives saved.
My lord of Gloucester, 'tis my special hope
And so, with thanks and pardon to you all,
Will I Rosalinda write,
On Neptune's billow, half the flood
Breed him some prejudice, for from this league
therefore I will attempt the doing it.
Began to give me ground: but I followed me close,
touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
I would have said it, you say well. Here comes the king.
As if the entertainment in our court
Ay, 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy
Third son to the third Edward King of England:
to change your mind.
That only wounds by hearsay.
Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
Continue where he is: to shift his being
I have a motion much imports your good,
I had well hoped thou wouldst have denied Beatrice,
Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.
The praise of it by telling, you must know,
Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
I'll send her to you presently,
What companies are near: pray you, away,
Is this in way of truth, yet ne'ertheless,
her look, or any woman else.
Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a
The least whereof would quell a lover's hope,
Was, for that--young King Richard thus removed,
Which he achieved by the minute, lost his favour.
And with a gad of steel will write these words,
To alter me: I stay here on my bond.
Troilus, I would not have you fight to-day.
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
To carry into Flanders the great seal.
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
No care of yours it is, you know 'tis ours.
It makes the consuls base: and my soul aches
As kill a man, or else devise his death,
I have so, because it is an open room and good for winter.
Exeunt. Alarums
We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken
Yes, sir, but anger hath a privilege.
In most rich choice, yet in his idle fire,
Of his oath-breaking, which he mended thus,
By the gods, I have not:
mother: thus when I shun Scylla, your father, I
The pretty wretch left crying and said 'Ay.'
Exit Servant
To mingle friendship far is mingling bloods.
Unto thy value I will mount myself
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot!
More tedious than the dial eight score times?
Repeal him with the welcome of his mother,
I have full cause of weeping, but this heart
Persuade my heart to this false perjury?
Their crownets regal, from the Athenian bay
Then let thy love be younger than thyself,
For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible
The good in conversation,
Nay, I will do as my cousin Shallow says: I pray
He hath some meaning in his mad attire:
Oppose himself against a troop of kerns,
sir, a father: he that so generally is at all times
by Phoebus, he,'that wandering knight so fair.' And,
I took you for that cunning whore of Venice
Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay,
Of the most pious Edward with such grace
piety, as shall be proved upon thee by good witness.
Make an extent upon his house and lands:
Your honour not o'erthrown by your desires,
What! is my Lord of Winchester install'd,
That come to hear a merry bawdy play,
And we'll pray for you.
For this was of much length,--the vile conclusion
Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a good
Thunder. Enter the three Witches
Compassion on the king commands me stoop,
Or when she would with sharp needle wound
That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood,
Let housewives make a skillet of my helm,
To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
Or else were this a savage spectacle:
[Reads]
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
measure, full of state and ancientry, and then comes
At least, good manners, as not thus to suffer
Fie, what a slug is Hastings, that he comes not
He is my brother too: but fitter time for that.
I can tell thee pretty tales of the duke.
Take that, and that: if all this will not do,
To share with me in glory any more:
Have after. To what issue will this come?
O, yet defend me, friends, I am but hurt.
And drown'd.
What can you vouch against him, Signior Lucio?
To be but named of thee. His meanest garment,
Pluck their hearts from them. Not to-day, O Lord,
My purpose is, indeed, a horse of that colour.
Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger,
Tear him, tear him! Come, brands ho! fire-brands:
Else he had been damned for cozening the devil.
You will do't, sir, really.
All prompting me how fair young Hero is,
Enter FLORIZEL and PERDITA
Out of my sight! thou dost infect my eyes.
Was he not held a learned man?
And your great flow of debts. My loved lord,
Mock not, that I affect the untraded oath,
And make, no doubt, us happy by his reign.
My prayers, minx!
And this the banquet she shall surfeit on,
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff,
Hath lately married. Shall our coffers, then,
And what thou think'st his very action speaks
I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.
Sith 'twas my fault to give the people scope,
These words become your lips as they pass
A goodly medicine for my aching bones! O world!
commission for more heads: if this law hold in
You tempt the fury of my three attendants,
Those be rubies, fairy favours,
Will you go with me? We'll mend our dinner here?
He was a bachelor then.
This do and do it kindly, gentle sirs:
In a litigious peace. You, and your lady,
I do beseech your royal majesty,
Where I shall kneel to him that slew my father!
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
Turk, to make eunuchs of.
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
Wishing his foot were equal with his eye,
The Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
You are at point to lose your liberties:
Henry the Fifth, that made all France to quake,
He is return'd in his opinions, which
Because you want the grace that others have,
Re-enter LAFEU
Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel,
Which, if my augury deceive me not,
Stands in worse case of woe.
The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans,
Tell her, we measure them by weary steps.
thinks a man always going to bed, and says, 'God
And not be tied unto his brother's will.
Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt, and would to God
That bucket down and full of tears am I,
With great creating nature.
Or, if misfortune miss the first career,
How if I answer 'no'?
shall find it a great charge: and to be up early
We trifle time: I pray thee, pursue sentence.
The senator shall bear contempt hereditary,
And I do know, by this, they stay for me
Exit boy
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
May deem that you are worthily deposed.
The bruit is, Hector's slain, and by Achilles.
Each man apart, all single and alone,
And seal the bargain with a holy kiss.
Yet one thing more, good Blunt, before thou go'st,
Then leave her, sir, for, by the power that made me,
Those men are happy, and so are all are near her.
ANTIPHOLUS
In that good path that I would wish it go,
To see me first, as I have now. Pisanio! man!
A dance
Have burnt that tongue than said so.
Let it come down.
I know when one is dead, and when one lives,
And able horses. No porter at his gate,
Whiles thus you mock it! how, in stripping it,
Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.
What you have charged me with, that have I done,
Unfought withal, but I will sell my dukedom,
Rises, and walks aside
Doth want example: who hath read or heard
And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so,
Exeunt
DON
'Good Gloucester' and 'good devil' were alike,
O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop
Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know,
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:
Eats and drinks
to think!--
Here on this molehill will I sit me down.
Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold
England and France might, through their amity,
Reads
What less than dooms-day is the prince's doom?
Do climate here! You have a holy father,
Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
O peers of England, shameful is this league!
So sways she level in her husband's heart:
A cocker'd silken wanton, brave our fields,
jades' tricks, which are their own right by the law of nature.
They do not point on me.
Lucius, what book is that she tosseth so?
My prettiest Perdita!
Rain sacrificial whisperings in his ear,
To laugh at gibing boys and stand the push
Where were her life? she durst not call me so,
There let them bide until we have devised
You look as if you held a brow of much distraction
On thy low grave, on faults forgiven. Dead
Go forward.
And pursy insolence shall break his wind
Almost as well as I do know myself:
If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
O, 'tis a verse in Horace, I know it well:
Myself and Beaufort had him in protection,
Draw, Benvolio, beat down their weapons.
Perchance shall dry your pities: but I have
Before me at this instant.
ACT I
This talking lord can lay upon my credit,
sworn that I am no fox, but he will not pass his
O Lord, sir! Nay, put me to't, I warrant you.
I have heard a sonnet begin so to one's mistress.
The better, given me by so holy a man.
spy her through the wall. You shall see, it will
Going to chapel, and the voice is now
Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar
We have compounded on.
Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
I have a reasonable good ear in music. Let's have
Not to woo honour, but to wed it, when
I'll leave her houses three or four as good,
Will make or man or woman madly dote
Let sorrow split my heart, if ever I
Fertile the isle, the temple much surpassing
do you service and you think we are ruffians, you'll
Become your time of day, and yours, and yours,
So please you, we will stand and watch your pleasure.
better, whilst I have a tooth in my head: why, he's
Then there is no true lover in the forest, else
Then let him be denay'd the regentship.
Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
But I, who never knew how to entreat,
Hail, noble prince of France!
Enforce attention like deep harmony:
A woman.
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
And I have one thing, of a queasy question,
Use careful watch, choose trusty sentinels.
A fine volley of words, gentlemen, and quickly shot off.
Stain to thy countrymen, thou hear'st thy doom!
Seven earls, twelve barons and twenty reverend bishops,
Of all the kingdom. Many more there are,
By him one step below, he by the next,
Now, like to whelps, we crying run away.
is mad, and sent into England.
cannot tell how to term it.
tell my daughter I would speak with her.
Will give thee all the world.
Long time thy shadow hath been thrall to me,
The fancy outwork nature: on each side her
Then, in a moment, Fortune shall cull forth
Her and her fortunes: none would look on her,
he that hath learned no wit by nature nor art may
Deliver up my Lord of Westmoreland.
My Dionyza, shall we rest us here,
More than a wild exposture to each chance
May prove coherent. Every night he comes
ere you're ware: you'll be so true to him, to be
I'll never pause again, never stand still,
Where great additions swell's, and virtue none,
To their benumbed wills, resist the same,
My lady is bespoke.
Exeunt all but YORK
A hair-brain'd Hotspur, govern'd by a spleen:
My patience here is touch'd. I do perceive
hour is an honourable badge of the service, and I do
To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
He is dishonour'd by a man which ever
certainty to be the king's daughter. Did you see
Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon,
forest lays claim to you.
Unto a woman, happy but for me,
Nay, good lieutenant,
Have you a catalogue
And therefore I will take the Nevils' parts
As 'longeth to a lover's blessed case!
That would be rid of such an enemy,
How it goes with us, and do look to know
That hath authority over him that swears:
What honey is expected? Degree being vizarded,
One that, above all other strifes, contended
Hadst thou groan'd for him
I cannot be bated one doit of a thousand pieces.
Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say 't,
Enter POLONIUS
That's too long for a play.
'You must amend your drunkenness.'
'Tis certain he hath pass'd the river Somme.
This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
Ay, that left pap,
Upright he held it, lords, that held it last.
My wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour,--
I cannot tarry: I knew a wench married in an
Paris and I kiss evermore for him.
Unto their issue.
As now we meet. You have deceived our trust,
you killed a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord
By sight of these our baleful enemies.
And over-joy of heart doth minister.
That he did pace them first? All things that are,
Chief nourisher in life's feast,--
Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse
As those which sell would give: but you well know,
One turf shall serve as pillow for us both,
[Aside]  'Tis better playing with a lion's whelp
Not all these lords do vex me half so much
Surety secure, but modest doubt is call'd
Which I will purchase with my duteous service,
Since arms avail not now that Henry's dead.
O, this same thought did but forerun my need,
That looks not heavily and full of fear.
Rue, even for ruth, here shortly shall be seen,
The vision. Enter, solemnly tripping one after  another, six personages, clad in white robes,  wearing on their heads garlands of bays, and golden  vizards on their faces, branches of bays or palm in  their hands. They first congee unto her, then  dance, and, at certain changes, the first two hold  a spare garland over her head, at which the other  four make reverent curtsies, then the two that held  the garland deliver the same to the other next two,  who observe the same order in their changes, and  holding the garland over her head: which done,  they deliver the same garland to the last two, who  likewise observe the same order: at which, as it  were by inspiration, she makes in her sleep signs  of rejoicing, and holdeth up her hands to heaven:  and so in their dancing vanish, carrying the garland with them. The music continues
Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
For her, my lord,
Then into limits could I bind my woes:
Yet camest thou to a morsel of this feast,
So many thousand times? Go, counsellor,
My fault, but not my body, pardon, sovereign.
A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
Enter Clown
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
As little by such toys as may be possible.
No more can I be sever'd from your side,
Call forth an officer.
take the word of a king and a bachelor. How answer
My gracious lord, no tribune hears you speak.
He is welcome too.
BRAKENBURY reads it
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
Who marvels then, when Helenus beholds
Say, gentlemen, what makes you thus exclaim?
Adieu, my Lord, Sir Valentine is coming.
and wouldst adventure
I, as I may--that which I would I cannot,--
That we may be admitted where he is.
It likes us well,
How many weary steps,
He doth me wrong to feed me with delays.
Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon,
Just the contrary, the better for thy friends.
Do't and thou hast the one half of my heart,
the Lent shall be as long again as it is, and thou
verse: we see it, we see it. How now, lambs?
He held them sixpence all too dear,
Enter GOWER and FLUELLEN, meeting
As this instructs thee, thou dost make thy way
And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.
To imitate the graces of the gods,
DON
Nay, good Lysander, for my sake, my dear,
Is that vile name to perish on my sword!
Than is the doting title of a mother,
And but one word with one of us? couple it with
SCENE IV. Country near Milford-Haven.
I know none of that name, lady: there was none such
And ceremoniously let us prepare
Men of peace, well encountered.
DIANA CAPILET.
Or fill up chronicles in time to come,
Both from his enterprise and from the world,
Must all determine here?
To see how fortune is disposed to us,
Who should deny it? Come, young one, I like the
church! Company, villanous company, hath been the
Was not my lord
appears much joy in him, even so much that joy could
These news would cause him once more yield the ghost.
Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.
And she shall file our engines with advice,
thank him, makes no stranger of me, we are familiar at first.
A trusty villain, sir, that very oft,
Who shall be of as little memory
Exit
And must be buried but as an intent
I would on great occasion speak with you.
My lord's almost so far transported that
Flourish. Exeunt
Tut, that's a foolish observation:
ACT II
And until then your entertain shall be
Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime.
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones,--
What thou shouldst be: the occasion speaks thee, and
knight with my taber.
Shouting their emulation.
Why, what canst thou tell, my boy?
money of the king's coming down the hill, 'tis going
Against the general enemy Ottoman.
Else wherefore breathe I in a Christian land?
their adversaries. Have you an army ready, say you?
And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks
Are you so fond of your young prince as we
The wretched, bloody, and usurping boar,
had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man
As the sweet Troilus. O you gods divine!
Till you hear further from his highness.
to undertake this business, which he knows is not to
lady, and I offered him my company to a willow-tree,
Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
Quarrel sir! no, sir.
You gave me this: but take it, sir, again.
Of rich and exquisite form, their values great,
Moved! in good time: let him that moved you hither
He is wise, sir, he knew your worship would kill
To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire:
Deliver'd to us, and for him forthwith,
And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
divide a minute into a thousand parts and break but
ACT I
Thou thinkest not of this now. Nay, I remember the
Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all, and
Exit
Have fought with equal fortune and continue
I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your
Break ope the locks o' the senate and bring in
Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
meet, but mountains may be removed with earthquakes
A thousand pieces!
Peace be at your labour, honest fishermen.
Antony, and Potpan!
Go to, woman!
Make holiday, your rye-straw hats put on
Folly in fools bears not so strong a note
Both day and night did we keep company.
Belong to Egypt: good now, play one scene
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
But what is not.
SCENE IX. Another part of the plains.
Master, for my hand,
Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience,
Cannot be truly follow'd. You shall mark
The Dauphin hath prevail'd beyond the seas,
That all the world will be in love with night
Enter Senators on the walls
In craving your opinion of my title,
Not out of absolute lust, though peradventure
And would not be awaked.
Who therewith angry, when it next came there,
Dues! Whence are you?
child! look thee here, take up, take up, boy,
Now Hal, to the news at court: for the robbery,
You are of our chamber, and our mind partakes
[To GONERIL]  Detested kite! thou liest.
I shall be satisfied.
There shall he practise tilts and tournaments,
Drawing a dagger
Enter FORTINBRAS, a Captain, and Soldiers, marching
won the bridge, killing all those that withstand
What follows, then, my lord?
Eros, thou yet behold'st me?
than she is requested: this broken joint between
And what's her history?
His insolence is more intolerable
Besides, the fashion of the time is changed--
Fe, fe, fe, fe! ma foi, il fait fort chaud. Je
all shall flout me out of my calling.
As I was sometime Milan: quickly, spirit,
Pursued my humour not pursuing his,
Your ignorant election, enforce his pride,
Sir, I know not how I may deserve to be your porter.
'Tis like you would not feast him like a friend,
forsworn his company hourly any time this two and
Who's there? speak, ho! speak quickly, or I shoot.
Have laid this woe here. O, 'tis pregnant, pregnant!
And teach your ears to list me with more heed.
It is my duty, sir.
How didst thou 'scape? How camest thou hither?
nor reason?
Under this thick-grown brake we'll shroud ourselves,
Some innocents 'scape not the thunderbolt.
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
Why, universal plodding poisons up
Still climbing trees in the Hesperides?
O piteous spectacle!
Like to the empty ass, to shake his ears,
O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work,
Of that unsatiate Edward, noble York
What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here,
To tie thee to my strong correction.
Or needs not us. If Caesar please, our master
You to his love must accord,
As, walk'd your first queen's ghost,
Nor tackle, sail, nor mast, the very rats
Proved us unspeaking sots.
Ah, none but in this iron age would do it!
And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother,
As more at large your grace shall understand.
And darest not stand, nor look me in the face.
And drawing days out, that men stand upon.
So, so, we draw together.
And bring him up to liking.
You cavil, widow: I did mean, my queen.
To his experienced tongue, yet let it please both,
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
drink, but I tell you, my lord fool, out of this
Shall never see it but a holiday.
And never, since the middle summer's spring,
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Medice, teipsum--
Take heed o' the foul fiend: obey thy parents,
Why, then, I care not for thee.
It is, my lord.
His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights,
Well, he shall be beheaded for it ten times. Ah,
Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I called thee?
Your angry choler on your enemies.
too was no good divinity. When the rain came to
Err in report of us.
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
There is a tide in the affairs of men,
I am so, I do love it better than laughing.
Hath been but for a wayward son,
What rein can hold licentious wickedness
'Tis not my profit that does lead mine honour,
You would desire the king were made a prelate:
What fellow's this?
Proclaim them traitors that are up with Cade,
Hold! the general speaks to you, hold, hold, for shame!
The middle centre of this cursed town.
there's a hole made in your best coat, Master Ford.
How that ambitious Constance would not cease
That you three fools lack'd me fool to make up the mess:
How much ye would?
Here is her oath for love, her honour's pawn.
Fear not, my lord: that Power that made you king
serve the world for no honest use, therefore you
Thou shouldst not scape me here.
Yet this good comfort bring I to your grace,
You have been noble towards her.
In heavy satisfaction and would never
Not sound?
The first, of gold, who this inscription bears,
And of our Athens, thine and ours, to take
Who can be angry now? what envy reach you?
the time of the day.
Nay, patience, or we break the sinews of our plot.
ANTIPHOLUS
Within my soul there doth conduce a fight
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,
It is so, sir: truly, I have forgot you.
And on your family's old monument
What, with five thousand men?
not ever sad then, for I have heard my daughter say,
Thirty fathom.
The dove pursues the griffin, the mild hind
Might be affronted with the match and weight
So far be mine, my most redoubted lord,
Did flesh his puny sword in Frenchmen's blood!
Adieu, good neighbour.
So up and down the poor ship drives:
Yes, good sooth: to, Achilles! to, Ajax! to!
ACT II
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
Had made provision for her following me
For which I would not plead, but that I must,
And, fly thou how thou canst, they'll tangle thee:
head-pieces.
Dost thou attend me?
Will bring this labour to an happy end.
Exit
We will give up our right in Aquitaine,
I follow you.
By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me
May the world know them?
Athens able to discharge Pyramus but he.
Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll
should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare
By reason guide his execution.
Catesby hath sounded Hastings in our business,
He means, my lord, that we are too remiss,
Of the beast Caliban and his confederates
to seek you both.
Re-enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR and all his train marching
Pray, sir, be patient: 'tis as much impossible--
would prove: my friends told me as much, and I
Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
Lock up my doors, and when you hear the drum
life: which if I can save, so, if not, honour comes
Shall have the chinks.
For which we lose our heads to gild his horns.
deceived me. How melancholies I am! I will knog
Sailing in this salt flood, the winds, thy sighs,
I fear me, he will scarce be pleased withal.
I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.
Which she hath praised him with above compare
Your high engender'd battles 'gainst a head
You know the law, your exposition
How can the law forbid my tongue to curse?
Worthy fellows, and like to prove most sinewy sword-men.
To-morrow to the field.
Thou hast contrived against the very life
Here, purposing the Bastard to destroy,
Laid them before you, you would throw them off,
Nay, he hath but a little beard.
But you, my knight and guest,
If I be not, heavens be revenged on me!
I am pale, Charmian.
What will I do, thinkest thou?
Exit an Attendant
Lord Rivers and Lord Grey are sent to Pomfret,
affirmation--his to be more fair, virtuous, wise,
Peace, Trojan, lay thy finger on thy lips!
gift is good in those in whom it is acute, and I am
To trash for over-topping, new created
numbers for the matter,
That Antony may seem to spend his fury
And disinherited thine only son.
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
Come to the matter.
I would not for the wealth of all the town
PROLOGUE
And churlish chiding of the winter's wind,
Breaking his oath and resolution like
him.
Speak, good Sicinius.
A beast, as thou art. The canker gnaw thy heart,
By him that thunders, thou hast lusty arms,
I tell you, denied, my lord.
Ay, Silvia, for your sake.
Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me,
My gracious lord,
Farewell, sweet playfellow: pray thou for us,
and reins well.
that they live by your bare words.
A model which heaven makes like to itself:
Were't not a shame, that whilst you live at jar,
would this be, if he durst steal any thing
That curtsy to them, do them reverence,
Three knights upon our party slain to-day,
Edward thy son, which now is Prince of Wales,
The troop is past. Come, pilgrim, I will bring you
My lord?
the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from
For do but note a wild and wanton herd,
Exist, and be a member of his love
Cease to lament for that thou canst not help,
This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood,
He's but a country gentleman,
What, ho! apothecary!
take him to be a thief too, sir, for we have found
The Douglas and the Hotspur both together
Yet to beat down these rebels here at home.
If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard's Castle,
But who is man that is not angry?
What power the Duke of York had levied there,
The king hath happily received, Macbeth,
In such a night
Following the signs, woo'd but the sign of she.
We would not seek a battle, as we are,
A segregation of the Turkish fleet:
Even here I will put off my hope and keep it
The enemy flying.
She curtsies to KING HENRY VIII, and offers to depart
No, not the duke's.
Will answer in mine honour.
Kisses OCTAVIA
Are you so hasty now? well, all is one.
But yet let reason govern thy lament.
Exit Peto
What's mine is yours and what is yours is mine.
He may mean more than we poor men do know:
Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed.
What should this mean?
So worthy as thy birth.
The tongues o' the common mouth: I do despise them,
But let them hear what fearful words I utter.
I hold him but a fool that will endanger
Do I stand there? I never had a brother,
Unless I have mista'en his colours much,
This article, my liege, yourself must break,
And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him
Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister
I'll be with you again,
In Richard's time, and posted day and night
If that I do not dream or be not frantic,--
pleasing pricket,
And yours of Helena to me bequeath,
for my life.
But that you do not love me.
As soul to soul affordeth?
And dotage terms so.
other places she enlargeth her mirth so far that
And it in you more dreadful would have seem'd
Harm not yourself with your vexation
I will meditate the while upon some horrid message
merit, did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?
Do themselves homage: these fellows have some soul,
And, had you not by wondrous fortune come,
By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain,
For such kindness must relieve me,
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
To tire your royalty.
A brace of draymen bid God speed him well
Then afterward up higher: but there is
'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
Part, fools!
Dost thou not suspect my place? dost thou not
And, in the spiced Indian air, by night,
Of him that makes it: then, if sickly ears,
That you may ruminate.
But stay, the knights are coming: we will withdraw
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,
What shall de honest man do in my closet? dere is
At what it did so freely? From this time
My lord, I know him, 'tis a meddling friar,
But then I saw no harm, and then I heard
Such is the lightness of you common men.
Who kill'd this prince?
Give answer to this boy, and do it freely,
passion came so near the life of passion as she
Hail, King of Scotland!
That bears so shrewd a maim, two pulls at once,
An it shall please you to break up
Stabb'd Julius Caesar, savage islanders
And top extremity.
her coffin! No news of them? Why, so: and I know
Confine! I'll confine myself no finer than I am:
Not so, my lord, for his valour cannot carry his
And, to be short, for not appearance and
for that. If you would conjure in her, you must
Why, man, how black?
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
swine-keeping, from eating draff and husks. A mad
And so riveted with faith unto your flesh.
Upon this business my appearance make
His war for Britain.
Of such as have before endured the like.
His antidotes are poison, and he slays
A noise of targets, or to see a fellow
Even like thy chastity. O cursed slave!
how much he is unworthy so good a lady.
The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely,
That 'twixt his mental and his active parts
You must lay down the treasures of your body
There lock yourself, and send him word you are dead.
Before I enter'd here, I call'd, and thought
By whose approach the regions of Artois,
To end the one of us, and would to God
I am one, my liege,
that is the breff and the long. Marry, I wad full
My brother he is in Elysium.
Well, for this night we will repose us here:
Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
Let Paris bleed, 'tis but a scar to scorn,
Our point of second meeting. Do you find
Which you weep for.
Can in this book of beauty read 'I love,'
Retires
death, with the manner how she came to't bravely
That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars
I'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,
Methinks, I could deal kingdoms to my friends,
I think, this coming summer, the King of Sicilia
Enter the Earls of SOMERSET, SUFFOLK, and WARWICK, RICHARD PLANTAGENET, VERNON, and another Lawyer
My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours!
How many score of miles may we well ride
And summon him to marriage. Now he goes,
It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
if not, I would it were.
O, Harry, thou hast robb'd me of my youth!
Music plays, and they dance
With courtesy and with respect enough,
Nor mark prodigious, such as are
More goddess-like than wife-like, such assaults
As being got, your father then in France,
Till I have brought him to his wits again,
To credit his own lie, he did believe
the tired horse his rider. But, damosella virgin,
Call we to mind, and mark but this for proof,
Name it, fair cousin.
The offence pardons itself. Dear Isabel,
Yes, 'tis most meet: whom may you else oppose,
Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed.
Of contumelious, beastly, mad-brain'd war,
Exeunt all but MENAS and ENOBARBUS
He is married?
devil? When the blood is made dull with the act of
My worthy friends, will you draw near?
I wonder none of you have thought of him.
'Tis warm at 's heart.
to perform it.
May I be bold to say so, sir?
You have not sought it! how comes it, then?
are so reasonable, for there is not one among them
Thunder
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars
But O,--but O,--
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
And, see, a book of prayer in his hand,
Enter APEMANTUS and Fool
Once more to-day well met, distemper'd lords!
Well, again.
For wise men say it is the wisest course.
Seems to flow from him! How, i' the name of thrift,
Sham it be put to that?
We think not so, my lord.
What should not then be spared. He is already
I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty
I pray God he be not, I say.
Lucius and I'll go brave it at the court:
Reach me thy hand, that I may help thee out,
myself, that I was the prince's jester, that I was
To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words,
Our reverend cardinal carried.
Our fine musician groweth amorous.
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  He knows the game: how true
We may, sir, if we will.
Is he alone?
You have work'd for me, there's payment for you: hence!
Where art thou, keeper? give me a cup of wine.
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
To put him to ill thinking.
And by herself, I will not tell you whose.
With which such scathful grapple did he make
An if the wind blow any way from shore,
But blessedly holp hither.
For forty ducats is too much to lose.
OLD receptacles, or common shores, of filth,
I will go tell him of fair Hermia's flight:
drunk to-day.
RICHARD
For still her cheeks possess the same
assaults of affection.
To this imperial throne. There is no bar
serpents, have
But he will not entreat his son for us.
And all the courses of my life do show
Betwixt us as the cement of our love,
The Earl of Warwick and the duke enforced me.
To the next abstinence: the next more easy,
it: if I do it, let the audience look to their
He saves my labour by his own approach.
Now get thee hence: the king, thou know'st, is coming,
To lay aside life-harming heaviness
They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness.
Half the heart of Caesar, worthy Mecaenas! My
Sodden business! there's a stewed phrase indeed!
this be duly performed, with a thought that more
behalf as you have uttered words in your own, you
Thou darest not, for thy own.
new-fangled than an ape, more giddy in my desires
But all his mind is bent to holiness,
Then, lest my lie be cropp'd to keep you clear,
Her name is Margery, indeed: I'll be sworn, if thou
Within these three days let me hear thee say
Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.
'Item: She hath a sweet mouth.'
Lay all the weight ye can upon my patience,
At first I did adore a twinkling star,
Is she not a modest young lady?
But yet an union in partition,
Exit
Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep,
hand. Why tribute? why should we pay tribute? If
Ha! ha! false to me?
Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
Yet I insisted, yet you answer'd not,
Is proclamation made, that who finds Edward
His taints and honours
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter LUCIUS, a Captain and other Officers, and a Soothsayer
Let it alone. Come, I'll go in with you.
in the point, poor jade, is wrung in the withers out
This bodiless creation ecstasy
Ourself, my lord protector and the rest
Now, Mars, I prithee, make us quick in work,
Could not be wedged in more: I am stifled
As to prenominate in nice conjecture
Servant in arms to Harry King of England,
I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard,
stolen. Well, you are to call at all the
What late misfortune is befall'n King Edward?
Well, sir, we will not.
Fear me not:
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
And that you'ld guide me to your sovereign's court,
and against your cony-catching rascals, Bardolph,
Misthink the king and not be satisfied!
O, no! alas, I rather hate myself
Have I the aspic in my lips? Dost fall?
ACT III
Go draw aside the curtains and discover
We do.
To enjoy thy banish'd lord and this great land!
The misplaced John should entertain an hour,
beauty, can do no more, spoil upon my face: thou
My wife is in a wayward mood to-day,
Old Cassius still!
And here pronounce free pardon to them all
The hands of Romans!
Stigmatical in making, worse in mind.
With pomp, with triumph and with revelling.
For when my outward action doth demonstrate
O, no, wherein Lord Talbot was o'erthrown:
So brainsickly of things. Go get some water,
very often like a knight, and, generally, in all
Uncertain favour!
Exeunt
From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports. Let
SCENE II. Camp near Sardis. Before BRUTUS's tent.
By what thou swear'st against the thing thou swear'st,
The fig of Spain!
Would make thee quickly hop without thy head.
Till then I'll sweat and seek about for eases,
For how I firmly am resolved you know,
Where kings command. I was, I must confess,
outswear Cupid. Comfort, me, boy: what great men
An evil soul producing holy witness
Nor, princes, is it matter new to us
Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
But were I not the better part made mercy,
He's very near the truth in this.
by threes. He's to make his requests by
And they have served me to effectless use:
do not like her.
Indeed! is't true?
Transported shall be at high festivals
Peace!
What villain touch'd his body, that did stab,
A most unhappy one: I would do much
Where be our men?
I wonder, sir, sith wives are monsters to you,
Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root?
But I will charm him first to keep his tongue.
Sir, sir,--
Whose loss hath pierced him deep and scarr'd his heart,
No impediment between, but that you must
Welcome, good Clarence, this is brotherlike.
Unto the main! O father, Maine is lost,
Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!
Thou losest here, a better where to find.
The wandering prince and Dido once enjoy'd,
O, let him marry her.
What warlike noise is this?
Confound and swallow navigation up,
Shall quite strike off all service I have done,
open your chaps again.
Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill.
That only to stand high in your account,
Hark, what fine change is in the music!
an ox, were nothing, he is both ox and ass. To be a
have all his rites.
be a torment to her contempt. He on the ground, my
And, in our maiden council, rated them
To choose you a queen: she shall not be so young
I know not, but I think it was not he.
SCENE II. The same. Another room.
For any thing he shall be charged withal:
There's little can be said in 't, 'tis against the
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
We follow thee.
Lusty and like to live: the queen receives
Wilt thou aspire to guide the heavenly car
Help to search my house this one time. If I find
Do you doubt that?
And do as adversaries do in law,
If this prove true, they'll pay for't:
And you, good brother father. What offence hath
An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds
Filth as thou art, with human care, and lodged thee
His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
cannot show it in rhyme, I have tried: I can find
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
Sconce call you it? so you would leave battering, I
Who look'd full gently on his warlike queen,
Well
My liege, this haste was hot in question,
Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted
What he might be: if what he might he is not,
'Tis the ninth hour o' the morn.
Why, so you are, my thrice renowned liege.
Even with the speediest expedition
I will, if that my fading breath permit
For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
a man! if thou dost perform, confound thee, for
Read it not, noble lords,
Here, mighty Theseus.
Killing their fruit with frowns? Can sodden water,
As well appeareth by the cause you come,
So high above his limits swells the rage
Give me your favour: my dull brain was wrought
To love and honour Henry as her lord.
Come, go with me apart, I will withdraw,
Exit
O tremble, for you hear the lion roar.
That two such noble peers as ye should jar!
Should my performance perish.
But while 'tis spoke each turn away her face.
But the fair of Rosalind.
His face's own margent did quote such amazes
If Salisbury wants mercy at thy hands!
In such a business.
Better ten thousand base-born Cades miscarry
More mild, but yet more harmful, kind in hatred:
Thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
And have you?
As pearls from diamonds dropp'd. In brief,
As, to the Tower, I thought, I would have play'd
Keep word, Lysander: we must starve our sight
Are you wise?
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
Exit Shylock
As water in a sieve: give not me counsel,
I hope, sir, you are, and I am yours.
Inhuman traitors, you constrain'd and forced.
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
This thou shalt answer, I know thee, Roderigo.
As did the fatal brand Althaea burn'd
Of prey that keep upon't.
henned sparrow! 'loo, Paris, 'loo! The bull has the
Thy hand hath murder'd him: I had a mighty cause
God-a-mercy, Grumio! then he shall have no odds.
Not worshipp'd with a waxen epitaph.
Thy biddings have been done, and every hour,
With them forgive yourself.
hath him, and that soundly.
SCENE III. A field near Windsor.
Affliction is enamour'd of thy parts,
I Richard's body have interred anew,
point and choke a daw withal. You have no stomach,
Out of the pain you suffer'd, gave no ear to't.
I am right glad that his health is well, sir: and
Thus did he strangle serpents in his manus.
To bear with their perverse objections,
My ever-gentle cousin, welcome hither.
Exit
What?
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
Has left the cause o' the king unhandled, and
Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth
Tying her duty, beauty, wit and fortunes
And every day I cannot come to woo.
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings:
Let me still take away the harms I fear,
One Gilbert Peck, his chancellor--
I will be here again, even with a thought.
Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me,
Ay, please your grace.
Of my lord's health, of his content, yet not
I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost.
Appear and aid me in this enterprise.
stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
And let my grave-stone be your oracle.
You shall try but one fall.
both, master parson?
I'll follow thee a month, devise with thee
Ever God bless your highness!
Here on this grass-plot, in this very place,
Beauty doth varnish age, as if new-born,
Brass, cur!
Suppose they take offence without a cause,
Keeps thicket. Please it our great general
Exit DIOMEDES, ULYSSES and TROILUS following
True! I'll be sworn they are true.
Till now, I ne'er endured.
Coriolanus in Corioli?
No sneaping winds at home, to make us say
Here comes the lord.
saving faith within me tells me thou shalt, I get
This kindness will I show.
But all the honour Salisbury hath won
'Tis 'long of you that spur me with such questions.
Marry, sir, we'll bring you to Windsor, to one
turned heathen, a very renegado, for there is no
By heaven, he echoes me,
Because she will not be annoy'd with suitors.
Pardon, madam,
The desperate tempest hath so bang'd the Turks,
From which we would not have you warp. Call hither,
Any thing in or out of our demands,
Pity the dearth that I have pined in,
Peace, peace, and give experience tongue.
hot venison pasty to dinner: come, gentlemen, I hope
La you, an you speak ill of the devil, how he takes
Than if you had made waste of all I have:
Which welcome we'll accept, feast here awhile,
I am glad at heart
Well could I bear that England had this praise,
[Reads]  'Demand of him, of what strength they are
Neighbours, God speed!
Lessen'd herself, and in the beams o' the sun
To murder me?
Here, most gracious liege.
There's some conceit or other likes him well,
the top of my compass: and there is much music,
But him outlive, and die a violent death.'
In doing wrong extenuates not wrong,
Prepare for mirth, for mirth becomes a feast:
The king's request that I would visit you,
This isle with Calibans.
here in hideous darkness.
There's never a one of you but trusts a knave,
Should the approach of this wild river break,
For quiet days, fair issue and long life,
To-day, as I came by, I called there,
He, sir.
EDGAR interposes
now o'er-reaches, one that would circumvent God,
When he is earth'd, hath here almost persuade,--
Good morrow to you. Here the street is narrow:
And Lord Biron, I thank him, is my dear.
DON
Unguided and unfriended, often prove
To ashes, ere our blood shall quench that fire:
Go, call before me all the lords in court.
No motion of the liver, but the palate,
Then waved his handkerchief?
With bloody veins, expecting overthrow,
Of his fair mistress: in the afternoon
Why, then let's home again. Come, sirrah, let's away.
I prithee, speak to me as to thy thinkings,
Filling the air with swords advanced and darts,
What would you have me do?
The only son of your great enemy.
Grieve not that I am fallen to this for you,
that thou wouldst think I had sold my farm to buy my
Therefore, when merchant-like I sell revenge,
Upon a gather'd lily almost wither'd.
I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read
And better conquest never canst thou make
My lady goes to kill horns, but, if thou marry,
Those that I reverence those I fear, the wise:
Of fighting men they have full three score thousand.
I was with Hercules and Cadmus once,
ACT IV
Should we be taking leave
Courage, man, the hurt cannot be much.
Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness
Paid ere he promised, whereby his suit was granted
I'ld with thee every foot.
Become a Christian and thy loving wife.
And will for evermore be true to it.
Sleep again, Lucius. Sirrah Claudius!
O Clifford, but bethink thee once again,
To orderly soliciting, and be friended
How? thy wife?
But me and mine: how happy art thou, then,
When creeping murmur and the poring dark
Sir Nicholas Gawsey hath for succor sent,
I had been happy, if the general camp,
The woman falls, sure, he hath kill'd his wife.
Rebellious hinds, the filth and scum of Kent,
Nay, come, let's go together.
Sovereign of Egypt, hail!
Trumpets within
O, stay but till then!
Enter RICHARD
Exit
And with his charity slain.
My daughter's buried. Well: where were you bred?
As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
So sick I am not, yet I am not well,
Which to deny concerns more than avails, for as
Alack, alack!
Something mistaken in't.
Though all that I can do is nothing worth,
That valour is the chiefest virtue, and
And come some other time to know our mind.
He hath brought many captives home to Rome
Lies in his hamstring, and doth think it rich
My lord, do you see these meteors? do you behold
Teach me, dear creature, how to think and speak,
Alas, alas!
Know you the musicians?
They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk,
Herself poised with herself in either eye:
Good Master Vernon, I am bound to you,
mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
We would so, and then go a bat-fowling.
Their eyes o'ergalled with recourse of tears,
The clerk of Chatham: he can write and read and
That would divorce this terror from my heart,'
I prithee, call him back.
Which end o' the beam should bow. We have lost your
Seal what I end withal! This double worship,
Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Bretagne,
I know him, madam: at a marriage-feast,
Of all the under fiends. But if so be
O, could our mourning ease thy misery!
Nourish the cause of his awaking: I
Egeus, I will overbear your will,
With those legions
The archbishopric of Toledo, this is purposed.
I bid my very friends and countrymen,
cats and dogs,
These ducats pawn I for my father here.
And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to
Dost thou here lie!
Sir,
Falls on the body
never liked.
But thus his simple truth must be abused
king's company.
sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers
I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
and thy perfume, they mocked thee for too much
Or thou wert born a fool. Camillo's flight,
Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head?
the poop, but 'tis in the nose of thee, thou art the
Exit CATESBY
Like to a chaos, or an unlick'd bear-whelp
It is, and wants but nomination.
Woe to her chance, and damn'd her loathed choice!
That's more
And show'd me silks that he had bought for me,
being a tall fellow, trust me not. Hark! the kings
So it is said, my noble lord, but therefore
An honourable murderer, if you will,
Master lieutenant, now that God and friends
Not hold thee of our blood, no, not our kin,
Would imitate, and sail upon the land,
Exeunt
but a cheveril glove to a good wit: how quickly the
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, and Attendants
princess of England, Elizabeth!
This chain you had of me, can you deny it?
the desire of the penitent to be so bared before his
Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head.
acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conned them
Draws a knife
You have but jested with me all this while:
That's my sister.
And here he writes that he did buy a poison
Therefore my son i' the ooze is bedded, and
My fleece of woolly hair that now uncurls
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
A crew of pirates came and rescued me,
God bless your grace with health and happy days!
Be pleased to tell us--
Where, from thy sight, I should be raging mad,
She hath not yet forgot him: some more time
Lest, being seen, thy brother, tender George,
Pray, sit between these ladies.
A widow, then?
Which I so often owe: but your ring first,
Shall we refresh us, sir, upon your shore,
For others say thou dost deserve, and I
You do not understand yourself so clearly
Yet filed with my abilities: mine own ends
'tis a playing-day, I see.
Enter, below, MARK ANTONY, borne by the Guard
What thou thinkest meet and is most mannerly.
Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner, he would
Good morrow, ladies. What were't worth to know
As victors wear at the Olympian games:
Cry 'Caesar!' Speak, Caesar is turn'd to hear.
Throw over her the veil of infamy:
Then, good my mother, let me know my father,
As 'twere triumphing at mine enemies,
I have none: do not talk to me, Emilia,
And, often but attended with weak guard,
To save the innocent: any thing possible.
dances, he has eyes of youth, he writes verses, he
I have possess'd you with and think them strong,
Although she lave them hourly in the flood.
Our baleful news, and at each word's deliverance
Points to WILLIAMS. Exeunt Heralds with Montjoy
Like rivers of remorse and innocency.
Caesar doth bear me hard, but he loves Brutus:
Worthy many babes and beggars!
Perfume for a lady's chamber,
Fan you into despair! Have the power still
Therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious.
I have done all. Bid them all fly, begone.
Well, go to, I will,
Religiously they ask a sacrifice:
Storm still
Does lecher in my sight.
wringing her hands, and all our house in a great
soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
Like one that stands upon a promontory,
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
assembly: whither should they come?
'Twould not become him, his own's better.
That by no means I may discover them
But he does buy my injuries, to be friends,
You shall ask pardon of his majesty.
elder-gun, that a poor and private displeasure can
Jove knows I love: But who?
man's apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the
Affection's edge in me, were she as rough
If you offend him, I for him defy you.
The king shall know it, and, no doubt, shall thank you.
Thou shalt be free
Base, fearful and despairing Henry!
To trouble and disturb the king and us?
the friend of France, for I love France so well that
Should sure to the slaughter,
Sound but another, and another shall
I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see
Our coronation: lords, prepare yourselves.
particulars, wherein every one of us has a single
Hence with him to the Tower, let him not speak.
Prisoner! to whom?
Upon the corner of the moon
No, my good lord: myself, he and my sister
And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth
Exit
No, friend, cannot you beg? Here's them in our
Of old Sir Rowland! why, what make you here?
The better for him: would I were so too!
What is thy name, that in the battle thus
A cry of women within
Some harlot's spirit! my throat of war be turn'd,
O dear father,
Which ne'er I did remember: to my knowledge,
for the command, I'll lay't upon you. Cassio knows
The Senators descend, and open the gates
your turns,
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
beard is turned white with the news: you may buy
I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spakest it
When it deserves, with characters of brass,
Why are you sequester'd from all your train,
What's that to us? The time goes by: away!
Where is my brother Hector?
Taking off her bracelet
To be a public spectacle to all:
Till that a capable and wide revenge
Which was a sin, yet in bestowing, madam,
I say she shall: and first begin with her.
We will not fail.
Camillo for the minister to poison
What plume of feathers is he that indited this letter?
Why, what is he? as good a man as York.
But to the earth some special good doth give,
Pray you, be gone:
Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,
You bred him as my playfellow, and he is
thousand salads ere we light on such another herb.
Till I be gentle, stay thou for thy good morrow,
to lay an amiable siege to the honesty of this
Troth, sir, I can yield you none without words, and
When we were chosen tribunes for the people,--
Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
come, make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
thee with scambling, and thou must therefore needs
Whose heart the accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
The patch is kind enough, but a huge feeder,
And wander up and down to view the city.
To Edward, but not to the English king.
Longer to live most weary, and present
he shows in this, he loves his own barn better than
From her material sap, perforce must wither
Determine this great war in single fight!
And, thus unbraced, Casca, as you see,
shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore
I'ld give thee leave to hang it. Get thee gone.
Here.
Wears this war's garland: in token of the which,
Till his lost child be found? which that it shall,
Men's evil manners live in brass, their virtues
yet would have dark deeds darkly answered, he would
possession of the pridge, but he is enforced to
Hubert, the utterance of a brace of tongues
And driven into despair an enemy's hope,
I am a most poor woman, and a stranger,
not have things cool.
To bide upon't, thou art not honest, or,
Thy brother was a furtherer in the act.
consent with both that we may enjoy each other: it
as Claudio's, to cross this in the smallest.
which cannot choose but branch now. Since their
the courtesy of it is so fearful. Speak your office.
What's thy name?
Of all opinion that grows rank in them
This sword hath ended him: so shall it thee,
Make me acquainted with your cause of grief.
Grapple your minds to sternage of this navy,
O constancy, be strong upon my side,
Take heed of perjury, thou art on thy deathbed.
They embrace
Tell me precisely of what complexion.
By my troth, I would not undertake her in this
This yellow Iachimo, in an hour,--wast not?--
If we no more meet till we meet in heaven,
horse a drench,' says he, and answers 'Some
A vision of the Island, one dear son
Pray, let us follow 'em.
SCENE III. A chapel in PAULINA'S house.
Exit
Or if you will, to speak more properly,
I have possess'd your grace of what I purpose,
And the third hour of drowsy morning name.
Enter IMOGEN, in boy's clothes
drunk, he sweats not to overthrow your Almain, he
Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels,
once to a thing, and I was never mine own man
There's meaning in thy snores.
Let them be hunted soundly. At this hour
Exeunt, carrying her away
Our best friends made, our means stretch'd
And drop my blood for drachmas, than to wring
leave me: stall this in your bosom, and I thank you
My lord, I claim your gift, my due by promise,
Stand back, you lords, and give us leave awhile.
Video, et gaudeo.
I hold you but a subject of this war,
Who, all enraged, will banish Valentine,
Believe me, thou talkest of an admirable conceited
You must be gone from hence immediately.
Nay, but hear me.
Since the physician at your father's died?
That he did plead in earnest? yea or no?
see you at my death. Notwithstanding, use your
Re-enter ARIEL, driving in CALIBAN, STEPHANO and TRINCULO, in their stolen apparel
In such a night
thou love such a woman? What, to make thee an
I shoot thee at the swain.
I know you wise, but yet no farther wise
Now, my fair'st friend,
And pay the sum that may deliver me.
Some Juliet, and some Paris, and all run,
Apt to be render'd, for some one to say
if you pardon, we will mend:
Enter NESTOR
Why, how now, lords! your wrathful weapons drawn
There's none but asses will be bridled so.
Demetrius loves your fair: O happy fair!
affection the one with the other. I would fain have
but his lackey: 'tis a hooded valour, and when it
The venomous malice of my swelling heart!
Well, mildly be it then. Mildly!
Exit
I would detain you here some month or two
Receive it from me, then: war and confusion
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Ay, good leave have you, for
And charity chased hence by rancour's hand,
Our royal master 's murder'd!
My hate to Marcius: where I find him, were it
Exit
Come, will you go with me?
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world? That's twice.
Come, come, come.
draws on. Now, the hot-blooded gods assist me!
With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel.
ANTIPHOLUS
How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
And, as a branch and member of this royalty,
And I in fury hither follow'd them,
Divides one thing entire to many objects,
Fall deep in love with thee, and her great charms
He hath a lady, wiser, fairer, truer,
And after many scorns, many foul taunts,
Enter CASSANDRA, raving
To scorch your face and to disfigure you.
With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
Polixenes for Leontes: O thou thing!
I told your grace they would talk anon.
Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas!
And he that breaks them in the least degree
All that is won and lost: give me a kiss,
My Lord Melun, let this be copied out,
of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on
I know no touch of it, my lord.
My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody.
Than Jephthah's, when he sacrificed his daughter.
And thou art flying to a fresher clime:
For them to play upon, entreats you pity him:
Merciful heaven!
matter: there's her cousin, an she were not
A gentle cousin, were it light enough.
Enter another Messenger
To know who hath obtained the glory of the day.
I am able to endure much.
All ports I'll bar, the villain shall not 'scape,
Nay, he will do it. 'Tis a goodly credit for you.
Do, my lord.
Ha!
Well, sir, by this you cannot get my land:
Come, son, away, we may not linger thus.
No.
Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne
mayst be turned to hobnails.
As thou hast made me by my dear lord's death!
With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
they hate upon no better a ground: therefore, for
Old Salisbury, shame to thy silver hair,
True, and I for a plantain: thus came your
Vow, Burgundy, by honour of thy house,
Then, taking him from thence that is not there,
To shrink mine arm up like a wither'd shrub,
from her: she is no equal for his birth: you may
Cursed be thy stones for thus deceiving me!
With her prepared nails.
Gentle, hear me:
[Singing]  I call'd my love false love, but what
Of these Italian weeds and suit myself
I stole into a neighbour thicket by,
Re-enter OLIVIA, with VIOLA
Exit
Nay, my good lord, let me o'errule you now:
Out-sweeten'd not thy breath: the ruddock would,
Off-capp'd to him: and, by the faith of man,
I'ld have you buy and sell so, so give alms,
for you: you have a new mistress.
Save thee, Timon.
Come on, sit down: come on, and do your best
Lest they should spy my windpipe's dangerous notes:
So are they all, all honourable men--
And to the love and favor of my country
I am sorry, madam, for the news I bring
To sauce thy dishes.
Can tickle where she wounds! My dearest husband,
Your marriage comes by destiny,
Good time of day unto your royal grace!
So for her many a wight did die,
Or, if thou follow me, do not believe
Ay, ay, he said four.
Come, go with me, peruse this as thou goest:
Heaven bless us!
Genitive case!
To that I'll speak, to that I'll sigh and weep:
Run back and bite, because he was withheld,
Of my cousin Vernon's are not yet come up:
Which wrought to his desire.
Which gives the stern'st good-night. He is about it:
My soul is in the sky:
But I am doubtful of your modesties,
Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more
You turn the good we offer into envy.
How now! what is't?
I'll to the friar, to know his remedy:
imagination blows him.
suffered to bring this woman to evil for your good.
you, yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you,
but upon my mended judgment--if I offend not to say
his heart, upon the river of Cydnus.
To be revenged on him that loveth you.
No, sir, I say his horse comes, with him on his back.
What need you five and twenty, ten, or five,
Whose present courage may beat down our foes,
brawl: souls and bodies hath he divorced three, and
common, and in Cheapside shall my palfrey go to
Ho, gentlemen! my lord calls.
The Lords rise from table, with much adoring of  TIMON, and to show their loves, each singles out an  Amazon, and all dance, men with women, a lofty strain or two to the hautboys, and cease
Through which our policy must make a breach:
Is that a wonder?
Make your best use of this: I have perform'd
How does the boy?
Where's Dick, the butcher of Ashford?
Re-enter SNOUT
The motion's good indeed and be it so,
I hear his drum: be copious in exclaims.
different names--sure, more,--and these are of the
I will be known your advocate: marry, yet
Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right her!
That I have seen inhabit in those cheeks?
You said our work should cease.
Priapus, and undo a whole generation. We must
And my help.
Enter PRIAM, HECTOR, TROILUS, PARIS, and HELENUS
Had been incorporate. So we grow together,
But I will none of them, they are for you,
Lysander if you live, good sir, awake.
Made to the queen, to call back her appeal
I would your grace
Nor well, unless in mind: his letter there
hair is my father, and all the rest are his sons.'
Fall Greeks, fail fame, honour or go or stay,
Brother, thou shalt to London presently,
Enter MONTAGUE with drum and colours
Now, therefore, be it known to noble Lewis,
Death to thyself but to thy lewd-tongued wife,
Know'st thou not any whom corrupting gold
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
If to-morrow be a fair day, by eleven o'clock it will
Is the next way to draw new mischief on.
May spend our wonder too, or take off thine
His wish'd ability, he had himself
Who is the first that doth prefer himself?
Armed in proof, and led by shallow Richmond.
You, gracious couple, do: and then I lost--
Enter LAUNCELOT
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth,
Not a whit,
The gods assist you!
And one whom much I honour.
To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage,
Make me a curse like this.
Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence,
Or would have done't myself. Your emperor
Freedom, hey-day! hey-day, freedom! freedom,
Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant and live.
As many and as well-born bloods as those,--
Exit
Shall still be doubled on her: truth shall nurse her,
Richard of York! how fares our loving brother?
But we will visit you at supper-time.
Why looks your grace so heavily today?
O Titus, see, O, see what thou hast done!
When I arrived and heard thee, that made gape
Of that victorious stock, and let us fear
With him! why, 'tis not possible.
To use as you think needful of the man.
ACT III
Avaunt, thou hateful villain, get thee gone!
By Jupiter! forgot.
To whom it must be done.
My hearty friends,
Captain Fluellen!
This queen will live: nature awakes, a warmth
This is a way to kill a wife with kindness,
Teach her the way.
To whom my father is not all unknown,
Enter BASSANIO, LORENZO, and GRATIANO
I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel:
Is purchase of a heavy curse from Rome,
But, by your favour,
I dare not know, my lord.
rich by the fairies. This is some changeling:
That the malevolence of fortune nothing
In such a business.
His faults in him seem as the spots of heaven,
jerkin, a pair of old breeches thrice turned, a pair
all bubukles, and whelks, and knobs, and flames o'
not to be recovered.
'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return.
and so, away: no further with your din
No, I warrant you, for a fools will shame it.
All his revenue.
And these dread curses, like the sun 'gainst glass,
Virtue he had, deserving to command:
Dwelt by a churchyard: I will tell it softly,
Ay, mistress, and Petruchio is the master,
We twain will go into his highness' tent.
Sea-sick, I think, coming from Muscovy.
ACT III
This last old man,
word might make my sister wanton. But indeed words
Good faith, I am no wiser than a daw.
But the main article I do approve
Bore us some leagues to sea, where they prepared
Would feed on one another? What's their seeking?
not where. If I travel but four foot by the squier
Ay, marry, was't, and he put it by thrice, every
Friar, not I	I have been drinking hard all night,
Approaching the bower
Sirrah, go you to Barthol'mew my page,
intelligence hath seldom failed.
That fair Queen Isabel, his grandmother,
me as you will.
Hear me, my love: be thou but true of heart,--
So much I hate a breaking cause to be
For the which she wept heartily and said she cared
And time it is, when raging war is done,
I fear thou'lt once more come again for ransom.
Were by the swords of common soldiers slain.
Hath my sword therefore broke through London gates,
Not a false gallop.
Leaps o'er the vaunt and firstlings of those broils,
Faith, sir, you need not fear. When we were boys,
from all parts of the world to just and tourney for her love.
But be as Ajax.
Confusion now hath made his masterpiece!
What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look
Recantation! My lord! my master!
great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will
Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
And 'tis this fever that keeps Troy on foot,
Passing these flats, are taken by the tide,
The third o' the world is yours, which with a snaffle
And none but fools do wear it, cast it off.
To be my child Cordelia.
Open the gates, or I'll shut thee out shortly.
With brazen din blast you the city's ear,
Their graces serve them but as enemies?
To be your prisoner should import offending,
Though not for Rome itself.
You take it off again?
Why, thou hast put him in such a dream, that when
And oftentimes excusing of a fault
I see them not with my old eyes: what are they?
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
He dies upon my scimitar's sharp point
My fortunes were more able to relieve her,
Blemish'd his gracious dam: this is not, no,
We have had pelting wars, since you refused
Brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade,
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
SCENE II. A public place.
Past all expressing. It is very meet
O, no, no.
Lord Angelo hath to the public ear
I am sorry, one so learned and so wise
Ay, to be murder'd by his enemies.
there's a double tongue, there's two tongues.' Thus
Her natural posture!
By heaven, that should be my handkerchief!
Nay, but hear me:
Are you ready, sir?
Hath her life been, the cure whereof, my lord,
I gave him no order, I gave him the stuff.
Now for the bare-pick'd bone of majesty
Good or bad?
An interlude!
What you will have, I'll give, and willing too,
I do not sue to stand,
I'll give my reasons,
Did never traitor in the land commit.
caper, ha! higher: ha, ha! excellent!
the parliament of England.
Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be
duck, I'll be sworn.
Let's think in private more.
Hum!
When all, for mine, if I may call offence,
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
Lucifer and Belzebub himself, it is necessary, look
Romans, make way: the good Andronicus.
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
I faint: O Iras, Charmian! 'tis no matter.
That so her torture may be shortened.
Speak to me:
When we with tears parted Pentapolis,
That shall remain a poison where it is,
Hum!
What wills Lord Talbot pleaseth Burgundy.
Beyond you, to your friends.
But how, my lord, shall we resist it now?
To witness simple virtue? Would you not swear,
We can both sing it: if thou'lt bear a part, thou
Hear nought from Rome in private. Your request?
water on thy choler: go about the fields with me
Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
Why birds and beasts from quality and kind,
Ay, is't not strange?
As if it had lungs and rotten ones.
Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
I'll prove the lie thou speak'st.
'Slid, I'll after him again and beat him.
The very beams will dry those vapours up,
Near to the king in blood, and near in love
these rebels, they offend none but the virtuous: I
And I am glad of it with all my heart:
With humble and familiar courtesy,
If Venus or her son, as thou dost know,
Pray God it be, sir.
As if the world should cleave, and that slain men
The harmony of their tongues hath into bondage
Tell us this: have you any thing to take to?
Embracing
That thou, my brother, my competitor
Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
I will be satisfied, let me see it, I say.
True, and thou seest that I no issue have
How easily murder is discovered!
Plead what I will be, not what I have been,
A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a
Ere they lack'd power to cross you.
Exit weeping, followed by BIANCA and others
And their rough carriage so ridiculous,
We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns,
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves,
[Aside]  Wormwood, wormwood.
I have it ready for thee, here it is.
It would unclew me quite.
Think you I bear the shears of destiny?
the princess, I say none so fit as to present the
SCENE II. Tyre. A room in the palace.
So well as Brutus living, but will follow
think well to carry this as you may, the doubleness
Despised in nativity,
Meet and ne'er part till one drop down a corse.
What does this mean, my lord?
Or thou or I, Somerset, will be protector,
Or to exclaim on fortune's fickleness.
Swearest thou, ungracious boy? henceforth ne'er look
For she is changed, as she had never been.
Away with me in post to Ravenspurgh,
Lies mocking our designs: with him Patroclus
That blood already, like the pelican,
But I'll set down the pegs that make this music,
Yea, or to-night.
that he is given to prayer, he is something peevish
My wife, her sister, and a rabble more
I pray you now, good master Slender's serving-man,
Why, then, God forgive me!
Doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow.
Old woman! what old woman's that?
He gave to Alexander, to Ptolemy he assign'd
About his neck, Bohemia: who, if I
O heaven! I thank you, Hubert.
There is an old tale goes that Herne the hunter,
That all those eyes adored them ere their fall
Since when, his oath is broke, for, as I hear,
Be poisonous too and kill thy forlorn queen.
Who doth ambition shun
Such sense, that my sense breeds with it. Fare you well.
To parley with the sole inheritor
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS, disguised as before, PISTOL,  as Hobgoblin, MISTRESS QUICKLY, ANNE PAGE, and others, as Fairies, with tapers
Belike that now she hath enfranchised them
Perfumes the chamber thus: the flame o' the taper
That Norfolk lies: here do I throw down this,
Then shall I swear to Kate, and you to me,
Is three long hours, yet she is not come.
Come with a thought I thank thee, Ariel: come.
shall 'scape whipping.
Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
Unheard. Lychorida!--Lucina, O
And what impossibility would slay
O, uncle, would some part of my young years
As it disanimates his enemies.
Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia.
And then pursue me as you draw your bow.
[Reads]  'sorted and consorted, contrary to thy
Nay! prithee, woman,--
I come to know your pleasure.
By what did here befal me. Your wife and brother
If I were fair, Thisby, I were only thine.
Most monstrous! oh!
I'll wink and couch: no man their works must eye.
The fault's your own.
on thought,
O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven
we'll put you i' the fills. Why do you not speak to
Nay, that's certain:
doublet quickly.
Look up, my lord.
True, madam, none at all: what call you this?
Yes, master, clear as day, I thank God and
Even ripe for marriage-rite, this maid
Though I am mad, I will not bite him: call.
I am more bound to you than your fellows, for they
Thereby to have defeated you and me,
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
And with a green and yellow melancholy
Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
Peace, I say! hear mine host of the Garter. Am I
When a man's servant shall play the cur with him,
And your three motives to the battle, with
'Long all of Somerset and his delay.
Arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow cell!
With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money
I pray you, let it stand.
hope you have no intent to turn husband, have you?
This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would
I think she means that there was more than one
for the phrase!
think I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed:
France, thou shalt rue this hour within this hour.
To kill their gracious father? damned fact!
They that stabb'd Caesar shed no blood at all,
to me may be nothing but 'Anon.' Step aside, and
Exit MISTRESS FORD
[Aside]  Well, I could reply:
The access of gentle visitors!
Dabbled in blood, and he squeak'd out aloud,
Thou know'st our reasons urged upon the way,
Who, looking for adventures in the world,
Let him go hence, and with his cap in hand,
If you have poison for me, I will drink it.
Who do prepare to meet him at the gates,
Climbing my walls in spite of me the owner,
Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
If promises be kept on every hand,
The enemy more mighty than he seems:
I never saw a fellow worse bested,
He holds her by the hand, silent
I have provided for you: stay awhile,
Most probable
[Aside]  All of her that is out of door most rich!
To call me goddess, nymph, divine and rare,
So please my lord, I might not be admitted,
Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate
For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Bretagne
Beguiles him as the mournful crocodile
Hight Philoten: and it is said
Here, here! for heaven's sake, help me!
I grant I am a woman, but withal
And never be Bassanio so for me:
Re-enter FALSTAFF
Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman,
the master and main exercise, the incorporate
Before and in Corioli, let me say,
But shall't be shortly?
These tedious old fools!
With divers-colour'd fans, whose wind did seem
Suspecting that we both were in a house
God and his angels guard your sacred throne
Knows almost every grain of Plutus' gold,
For thee to murder: for my daughters, Richard,
To run upon the sharp wind of the north,
let me in.
Nay, certainly to-night,
He has borne all things well: and I do think
With falsehood, cowardice and poor descent,
That have the office opposite to Saint Peter,
You will compel me, then, to read the will?
Here is a letter from Queen Hecuba,
[Aside to GUILDENSTERN]  What say you?
Enter SIR HUMPHREY and WILLIAM STAFFORD, with drum and soldiers
perpendicular,--
She that, so young, could give out such a seeming,
Here is the will, and under Caesar's seal.
And turn his sleep to wake.
Why, then, thou know'st what colour jet is of?
If they did kill thy husband, then be joyful
Yes, to smell pork, to eat of the habitation which
you are to depart, I am come to advise you, comfort
evasions have ears thus long. I have bobbed his
I love thee.
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
But metal, Marcus, steel to the very back,
What 'twere to lose it, and be miserable!
O pardonnez moi!
That do renown this city.
[Aside]  Though this be madness, yet there is method
lord: whom I serve above is my master.
Why, that's the way
Holds hand with any princess of the world.
God's wrong is most of all.
Thou hast made me now a man! never, before
And stolest away the ladies' hearts of France,
received from her another embassy of meeting, 'twixt
The other, at high wish: best state, contentless,
Exeunt
Her hand on her bosom, her head on her knee,
That good convenience claims.
Ere clean it o'erthrow nature, makes it valiant,
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
Every true man's apparel fits your thief: if it be
Decline to your confounding contraries,
Can justly praise but what he does affect:
Then lead me hence, with whom I leave my curse:
She intends unto his holiness.
Upon my party, I'ld revolt to make
O, I believe with him,
Sirrah, lead these gentlemen
merry. Now, good Peter Quince, call forth your
A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue,
This same shall go.
Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee
Didst thou? Lord, Lord, how this world is given to
That I was not ignoble of descent,
We have here one, sir, if she would--but there never
help! I had rather than forty pound I were at home.
together with the common lag of people--what is
Hath founded his good fortunes on your love,
Let her know't.
By a commission from the consistory,
Methinks I play as I have seen them do
for the nonce, to immask our noted outward garments.
of a lazar, so I were not Menelaus! Hey-day!
What dost thou know?
Exit
Porter, remember what I gave in charge,
It might, my lord.
But, with an angry wafture of your hand,
The night is long that never finds the day.
And when please you to say so?
Exeunt
indeed, cannot abide 'em, they are very ill-favored
I beg the law, the law, upon his head.
what's Achilles?
Beneath the visiting moon.
My life, sir! how, I pray? for that goes hard.
Is the chair empty? is the sword unsway'd?
Translates his rivals.
Thus, with his speechless hand: what he would do,
Distinguish form: so your sweet majesty,
But now, I do respect thee as my soul.
Nay, I'll conjure too.
In thy condign praise.
Nor wrong mine age with this indignity.
Enter Surveyor
Come, will you go?
I prithee, and I'll pay thee bounteously,
If it will not be, I'll leave you.
debts are cleared between you and I, if I might but
Enter KATHARINA and GRUMIO
should speak truth of it: here it is, and all that
abide the smell of hot meat since. Why do your
There would he anchor his aspect and die
But comforts we despise, our size of sorrow,
To see you so attired, sworn, I think,
thee, in what motion age will give me leave.
The incense of a vow, a holy vow,
And is not that your bondman, Dromio?
Fortune forbid my outside have not charm'd her!
winds. The heavens continue their loves!
Fill till the cup be hid.
And now, so you will let me quiet go,
Yes, that I did, but that was but courtesy.
Domestic awe, night-rest, and neighbourhood,
And high and low beguiles the rich and poor:
So make the choice of thy own time, for I,
E'en as Apemantus does now, hate a lord with my heart.
the camp will do among foaming bottles and
Are we all ready? What is now amiss
That mint.
Best half of our affair.
That all the travellers do fear so much.
O, thereby hangs a tail.
Which is as thin of substance as the air
With nothing shall be pleased, till he be eased
How now?
Was not our recompense, resting well assured
[Coming forward]  Why, how now, lords!
And three times thrice is nine.
What shall be done with him? what is your plot?
look you, of my mind, as touching the direction of
younger brothers, revolted tapsters and ostlers
All happiness to your honour!
Shall die a beggar. Ink and paper, Charmian.
Your mystery, your mystery: nay, dispatch.
To any shape of thy preferment such
I know it well. What must I call her?
Must know and own, this thing of darkness!
For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane,
Is as the very centre of the earth,
Be Alcibiades your plague, you his,
All curses madded Hecuba gave the Greeks,
Upon these paltry, servile, abject drudges!
I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
To sunder them that yoke so well together.
Lychorida, our nurse, is dead:
And if thy sons were ever dear to thee,
The special watchmen of our English weal,
yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of
Thou liest, abhorred tyrant, with my sword
Went'st not thou to her for a purse of ducats?
An end, sir, to your business. Give Helen this,
As when his virtues shining upon others
Pray you, take note of it: and when you have
Had you first died, and he been thus trod down,
As we have, such. This gallant which thou seest
and 'rests them, he, sir, that takes pity on decayed
The worships of their name. O most small fault,
Than but once think this place becomes thee not.
Till we have brought Duke Humphrey in disgrace.
My father and Lavinia shall forthwith
This hath some seeming.
Exit EDMUND
night, when thou spokest of Pigrogromitus, of the
Which shows that beauty hath his power and will,
And what offence it is to flout his friends.
Was ever woman in this humour won?
O, why should nature build so foul a den,
therefore I must cast it up.
That what you cannot as you would achieve,
With silence, nephew, be thou politic:
To who?
love me, hold not off.
A thousand businesses are brief in hand,
All things that we ordained festival,
The heir of kingdoms and another like
Navarre had notice of your fair approach,
Let there be some more test made of my metal,
A Norman was't?
Vain Thurio, whom my very soul abhors.
Where hast thou been, my heart? Dost thou hear, lady?
The noble man have mercy.
Suffolk, ambassador for Henry King of England, that
And threaten present blusters. In my conscience,
Our certain death: therefore it is decreed
Have we pass'd through, not without much content
Non, je reciterai a vous promptement: de hand, de
'Ad Martem,' that's for myself:
discipline come not near thee! Let thy blood be thy
His answer was, the people were not wont
In any of our towns of garrison.
Enough is shown: a cypress, not a bosom,
Thy late exploits done in the heart of France,
fornication, adultery, and all uncleanliness there.
Re-enter MARK ANTONY and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep,
Is the axe upon the block, sirrah?
Of Pericles, to rage the city turn,
True, madam: he, of all the men that ever my foolish
What the conditions of that league must be.
We make a quire, as doth the prison'd bird,
To what we fear of death.
Of me and all that I can make,
Myself would, on the rearward of reproaches,
The graces for his merits due,
Here an alarum again: and TALBOT pursueth the  DAUPHIN, and driveth him: then enter JOAN LA  PUCELLE, driving Englishmen before her, and exit after them then re-enter TALBOT
When he did need your loves, and do you think
Like wrath in death and envy afterwards,
That Rome should dote on: yet, by the faith of men,
They fight
And on the ragged stones beat forth our brains,
recover him, I will help his ague. Come. Amen! I
From any dram of mercy.
If he be not in love with some woman, there is no
And to the skirts of this wild wood he came,
a plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to another!
I pray you, sir, receive the money now,
say 'There were wit in this head, an 'twould out,'
No worse a husband than the best of men,
Rare as you seem to be.
The better act of purposes mistook
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
her home again. She hath despised me rejoicingly,
Unhappy were you, madam, ere I came,
I go, let me go with that I came, which is, with
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
To sup with me to-morrow night. Away!
Prepare you, lords, for Edward is at hand.
Have you not set them on?
Where virtue is, these are more virtuous:
Safe, Antony, Brutus is safe enough:
To overgo thy plaints and drown thy cries!
Madam, an if my brother had my shape,
Enter Poet and Painter, TIMON watching them from his cave
I fear some outrage, and I'll follow her.
With gentle conference, soft and affable.
Hope is a curtal dog in some affairs:
O woful day!
When they change us for others? Is it sport?
Whereas no glory's got to overcome.
I do think so. Pray you, turn your eyes upon me.
She shall, she shall.
Commit them to the fire!
I'll meet. So fare you well: I have left you commands.
more since.
Make up to Clifton: I'll to Sir Nicholas Gawsey.
For taking bribes here of the Sardians,
Killing myself, to die upon a kiss.
For your sweet music this last night: I do
In such a rein, in full as proud a place
I do beseech you, sir,
These things being bought and orderly bestow'd,
What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost not mark me.
Your fellow tribune.
'Twould move me sooner.
Your name, your quality? and why you answer
Even now we heard the news: ah, could'st thou fly!
Who attends us there?
Seek him out, and play the tune the while.
Of this my privacy
Well.
And take the shame with joy.
Troy in our weakness stands, not in her strength.
A kissing traitor. How art thou proved Judas?
For the best turn i' the bed.
And let his manly face, which promiseth
Hath he conversed with the enemy,
Where you were tied in duty, and as sorry
Out with it boldly: truth loves open dealing.
Makes me with thy strength to communicate:
And groaning underneath this age's yoke,
privily relieve him: go you and maintain talk with
Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel:
I'd not believe thee. Henceforth guard thee well,
When they have lost and forfeited themselves?
Mine innocency and Saint George to thrive!
is, even till the altitude of his virtue.
In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself.
or a hair less, in his beard, than thou hast: thou
was never man thus abused. I am no more mad than you
Enter IMOGEN
We will read it, I swear.
Either envy, therefore, or misprison
When King Cophetua loved the beggar-maid!
To seek him here that means not to be found.
I'll let his humours blood.
I have a journey, sir, shortly to go,
Poor bird! thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
[Aside to CELIA]  I will speak to him, like a saucy
Within these three hours, Tullus,
More needs she the divine than the physician.
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
Let us consult upon to-morrow's business
I told you what would come of this: beseech you,
What is the matter, my lord?
Do grace to Caesar's corpse, and grace his speech
bilbo, in the circumference of a peck, hilt to
be sad: I fear you have sold your own lands to see
That drew their swords with you. Did he not rather
the ear of the court, how I have been transformed
I am all the daughters of my father's house,
And live alone as secret as I may.
To the fire i' the blood: be more abstemious,
O, if in black my lady's brows be deck'd,
Yet I am richer than my base accusers,
Deliver'd by a friend that came from him.
Let them from forth a sawpit rush at once
Nothing but this, your true love for my master.
To allay with some cold drops of modesty
For the which I will be thy adversary toward Anne
And blow it to the source from whence it came:
I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house
I know but of a single part, in aught
This cardinal's more haughty than the devil.
If you dare fight to-day, come to the field,
Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
quickly! the other that she's in earth, from whence
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
For better times to come. Friar, advise him,
Why, how dost thou, man? what is the matter with thee?
Worthy Montano, you were wont be civil,
Now, out of doubt Antipholus is mad,
They seek revenge and therefore will not yield.
Have earnestly implored a general peace
Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus,
[To PAGE]  And this is true, I like not the humour
with him, at my importunity, to fill up your grace's
Frighted each other? why should he follow?
Shall tithe or toll in our dominions,
Will o'er some high-viced city hang his poison
Where'er I wander, boast of this I can,
So did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest
Upon the life of this thrice-famed duke.
Thou sun, that comfort'st, burn! Speak, and
He kneels
Shall pass on thy approof. Most noble Antony,
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
go near to make a man look sad.
Here shall I die ashore--
I prithee, but repair to me next morning.
Who redeems nature from the general curse
Your son, George Stanley: look your faith be firm.
if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you
To bed, to bed: sleep kill those pretty eyes,
Exit
Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee.
But she knows what she does.
well-favoured and he speaks very shrewishly, one
For being yare about him.
And when he was not six and twenty strong,
Black, forsooth: coal-black as jet.
Bring me the satin coffer: lay the babe
Not dropp'd down yet.
Wicked and vile, and so her death concludes.
Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
Buried his father, by whose death he's stepp'd
In aught an eunuch has: 'tis well for thee,
MARIANA veiled, ISABELLA, and FRIAR PETER, at their  stand. Enter DUKE VINCENTIO, VARRIUS, Lords,  ANGELO, ESCALUS, LUCIO, Provost, Officers, and Citizens, at several doors
Strike up, pipers.
That can never be.
Yet never means to wed where he hath woo'd.
Brother, for in that name doth nature plead,--
My fate cries out,
To signify the approaching of his lord,
Than dogs that are as often beat for barking
Let me persuade you take a better course.
as he was fortunate, I rejoice at it, as he was
Timandra had gold of him: he likewise enriched poor
If he may be repeal'd, to try his honour.
should be hanged, I cannot imagine.
For curious I cannot be with you,
Nor will you tender less.
And with affection wondrous sensible
Exit
It is not so, for how can this be true,
You shall to the Tower.
Enter CYMBELINE, QUEEN, CLOTEN, LUCIUS, Lords, and Attendants
No, I'll not weep:
Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself
to be glad of yours.
Yet art thou slain in him: thou dost consent
Thou mayst befriend me so much as to think
And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live,
What's the matter?
She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
fashion, yours is worth ten on 't.
Like high-rear'd bulwarks, stand before our faces,
Have sent a dozen sequent messengers
Have comfort, for I know your plight is pitied
My advocation is not now in tune,
Enter THYREUS
That I should love a bright particular star
their mother,
That heart, which now abhors, to like his love.
I take thee at thy word:
I cannot say the words.
Whither are you going?
To whom as great a charge as little honour
Take her by the hand,
To be a secondary at control,
O for your reason! quickly, sir, I long.
And so it is received. Now, pious sir,
Not a whit.
It sendeth forth to skirmish. One to ten!
Her estimation home.
That ever-valiant and approved Scot,
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, CLIFFORD, and WESTMORELAND
be pold, I pray you, follow me into the pit, and
SCENE III. The Duke of Albany's palace.
How now, thou core of envy!
To you that know them not. This to my mother:
And, to be short, what not, that's sweet and happy?
Pointing to Caliban
My drown'd queen's name, as in the rest you said
Be more myself.
Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
He would not!
truly how thou likest her.
I thank thee, fellow, thou servest me, and I'll
As great to me as late, and, supportable
briefly yield her, for she must overboard straight.
Neither of either, I remit both twain.
It is my fashion, when I see a crab.
If therefore you dare trust my honesty,
Alack, let it blood.
Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius.
three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the squier.
Your lordship is a guest too.
business, but he would not hear my excuse. I am
Exeunt
If there be faith in men, meant for his trial,
The way it takes, cracking ten thousand curbs
Friar, it cannot be.
And Buckingham, back'd with the hardy Welshmen,
But that belike Iago in the interim
Make haste, I say.
Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds
Out at the postern by the abbey-wall:
Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world,
None should come at him.
Ay, Timon, and have cause.
That will never be
Which doth amount to three odd ducats more
That I should snarl and bite and play the dog.
Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this lethargy?
Will money buy 'em?
Stabs RODERIGO
But edifies another with her deeds.
Then do I give Volquessen, Touraine, Maine,
favour to you,
She was a wight, if ever such wight were,--
Nestor!
I well might hear, delivered with a groan,
I have, in this rough work, shaped out a man,
Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
Should show so heinous, black, obscene a deed!
But that still use of grief makes wild grief tame,
To my grief, I am
That girdlest in those wolves, dive in the earth,
boot, can never amend.
You are so empty of them. Should not our father
I turn my glass and give my scene such growing
Dies ere the weary sun set in the west.
If it be husbanded with modesty.
So my untruth had not provoked him to it,
A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops
Exit
Here is a letter, read it at your leisure,
Sir, he's a good dog, and a fair dog: can there be
Peace, ho!
He throws the bottle at him. Exit
Thou mayst be valiant in a better cause,
spoken, I have locked the letter in my closet:
The needful bits and curbs to headstrong weeds,
is a strumpet. What's the news?
If in the world he live, we'll seek him out,
Even so suspicious is this tragedy.
Sir,
[Aside]  He was an honest man, and a good
ago, and wert taken with the manner, and ever since
There comes a fellow crying out for help:
Now heavens forbid such scarcity of youth!
'Tis well bethought.
at this line: let me see, let me see--
The birds chant melody on every bush,
But, as I think, it was by the cardinal,
Obey, audacious traitor, kneel for grace.
I thank ye heartily, so shall this lady,
in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt find what it is
Where ever Englishman durst set his foot.
I had rather chop this hand off at a blow,
But rather reason thus with reason fetter,
Resolve you.
In thy opinion which is worthiest love?
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
A human shape.
A mother's tears in passion for her son:
Though our silence be drawn from us with cars, yet peace.
Ay, with five hundred, father, for a need:
With shadowy forests and with champains rich'd,
Exit ISABELLA
That for thine own gain shouldst defend mine honour?
Give me.
The very devils cannot plague them better.
the very wrath of love and they will together, clubs
The foul corruption of a sweet child's death.
Exit with the body
To rid her from this second marriage,
To have us make denial.
Upon my sword.
That I have been disloyal to thy bed,
And I, to make thee mad, do mock thee thus.
Nay, rather turn this day out of the week,
The service of the foot
enrich the hand
Indeed, I am not John of Gaunt, your grandfather,
All ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder,
now should not the shoe speak a word for weeping:
That every eye which in this forest looks
Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
To be, or not to be: that is the question:
My tears for glasses, and still make me weep.
Knocking within. Enter a Porter
Come, enough.
I neither care for the world nor your general: for
and blood has not offended the king, and so your
It was a crest ere thou wast born:
Go presently and take this ring with thee,
'Tis too respective and too sociable
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star,
Which is the side that I must go withal?
Henceforth be earls, the first that ever Scotland
For at their hands I have deserved no pity.
From our debate, from our dissension,
Exeunt
Enter GOWER
Scorn and defiance, slight regard, contempt,
Not one of those but had a noble father.
Or at every sentence end,
But you are more inhuman, more inexorable,
Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
To FLORIZEL
No, truly, it is more than manners will:
Whom late you have named for consul.
I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,
O lady, weep no more, lest I give cause
Until the goose came out of door,
Come, my Marina.
Exeunt MARK ANTONY, QUEEN CLEOPATRA, and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
And see the holy edifice of stone,
To scan this thing no further, leave it to time:
The which is good in nothing but in sight!
And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes,
Exeunt
Is this a holiday? what! know you not,
Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice,
On special dignities, which vacant lie
To bear it tamely, touch me with noble anger,
Cousin, farewell: no further go in this
In winter with warm tears I'll melt the snow
Or live in peace abandon'd and despised!
Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing-while,
Lies down upon his face
Did he not send you twain?
wonderful. The best courtier of them all, when the
if it be nothing, I shall not need spectacles.
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
It seems the marriage with his brother's wife
Fit in his place and time.
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love,
in the parliament for the putting down of men. How
The death of Cassio to be undertook
Who should withhold me?
But I will gloze with him.--Young prince of Tyre,
She is stirring, sir: if she will stir hither, I
Exeunt
SCENE VI. Friar Laurence's cell.
I'll have no bigger: this doth fit the time,
As Anna to the queen of Carthage was,
This cause of Rome and chastised with arms
Which my love makes religion to obey,
The hum of either army stilly sounds,
Myself the crying fellow did pursue,
That rounds the mortal temples of a king
and thou art to post after with oars. What's the
I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible
Shall wait upon your father's funeral.
day! Alas, poor Harry of England! he longs not for
would send me word, he cut it to please himself:
Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit,
Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
an old faced ancient: and such have I, to fill up
If all could so become it.
I would my arms could match thee in contention,
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
What, prithee?
And in such forms which here were presupposed
Could my good brother suffer you to do it?
That they who brought me in my master's hate
Exeunt
His judgment too.
So mightily betray'd! yet at the first
And sent me over by Berkeley, to discover
'Tide life, 'tide death, I come without delay.
How I may be deliver'd of these woes,
Without apparent hazard of his life.
Prithee, peace.
SCENE II. Orleans. Within the town.
Drum beats. Exeunt ALCIBIADES, PHRYNIA, and TIMANDRA
Nor age nor honour shall shape privilege:
If you we re civil and knew courtesy,
I would to God, my lords, he might be found:
As, like to pitch, defile nobility,
That murder'd my love's cousin, with which grief,
Do it in notes.
Thou hast no husband yet nor I no wife.
Thou dost affect my manners, and dost use them.
Whate'er it be, be thou still like thyself,
What hast thou found?
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
And here the abbess shuts the gates on us
Thou little valiant, great in villany!
Do not weep, do not weep. Alas the day!
him read many lectures against it, and I thank God
Flourish
Give me some help.
Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
Exit OSWALD
Those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves:
As my young mistress' dog. Now, my sick fool Roderigo,
Plead on her part some cause to you unknown:
And that I'll spend for him.
they come will tell you more: for my part, I only
Than in the note of judgment, and worthier
To make their audit at your highness' pleasure,
Caesar was mighty, bold, royal, and loving:
O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
O Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!
what of that? if it please the eye of one, it is
Do villany, do, since you protest to do't,
Exit
yourself know how easy it is to be such an offender.
Of smooth civility: yet am I inland bred
If there be ten, shrink not, but down with 'em.
No might nor greatness in mortality
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same covenant,
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites,
Exit
Will you walk in, my lord?
We first address towards you, who with this king
Why, then, depart in peace, and let the child wake
That we may bring you something on the way.
Nay, press not so upon me, stand far off.
And that well might
A charge sounded
He were mine enemy? what friend of mine
Banish me!
What then?
And I am sent to be revenged on him.
A sort of vagabonds, rascals, and runaways,
Each Trojan that is master of his heart,
Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself?
When thy first griefs were but a mere conceit,
sell bullocks. But did you think the prince would
A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you.
So much they spur their expedition.
O, God save ye!
When you sally upon him, speak what terrible
The man shall have his mare again, and all shall be well.
Shall make the gazer joy to see him tread.
Of stern commandment. But whate'er you are
Flourish. SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS go up into the Capitol
Enter AUSTRIA and forces, drums, etc. on one side:  on the other KING PHILIP and his power, LEWIS, ARTHUR, CONSTANCE and attendants
Why, how now, monsieur! what a life is this,
And stood within the blank of his displeasure
Now, Antony, our hopes are answered:
Re-enter EMILIA
A Daniel come to judgment! yea, a Daniel!
Wind away,
Ten thousand French have ta'en the sacrament
Thanks to you all, and leave us: fare you well.
Look into these affairs see this main end,
And had I not been cited so by them,
Our dinner done, and he not coming thither,
These eyes that never shed remorseful tear,
duke had crotchets in him. He would be drunk too,
I nill relate, action may
What, household stuff?
Pride, haughtiness, opinion and disdain:
By his authority I will proclaim it,
against destiny. Ask me not, what I would be, if I
The glistering of this present, as my tale
Away! though parting be a fretful corrosive,
Hear me but speak, and bear me where you will.
thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin.
Brief, he must hence depart to Tyre:
You both are rivals, and love Hermia,
score. He pieces out his wife's inclination, he
He's but a sot, as I am, nor hath not
For they account his head upon the bridge.
To-day the lords you talk of are beheaded.
Ere a determinate resolution, he,
'By the Lord, madam,'--
So! in the name of Jesu Christ, speak lower. It is
ACT V
I know not where, but wheresoever, I wish him well.
Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue.
And when the mind is quicken'd, out of doubt,
Who for Bohemia bend, to signify
Till that my nails were anchor'd in thine eyes,
County Anselme and his beauteous sisters, the lady
One that speaks thus their voice?
Marry, I thank you for it, I thank you for that good
To guard a thing not ours nor worth to us,
Enter IDEN
Enter LUCIUS, with his sword drawn
Fie! charity, for shame! speak not in spite,
Knowing all measures, the full Caesar will
No further halting: satisfy me home
That lowliness is young ambition's ladder,
Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears,
under that title because I am merry. Yea, but so I
And tapers burn so bright and every thing
Mock not my senseless conjuration, lords:
Now, I pray God, amen!
'Tis figured in my tongue.
I never heard any soldier dislike it.
In the unlawful purpose.
One word, good friend. Lucio, a word with you.
Pointing on him.
You have shot over.
see her beautiful.
O, he hath kept an evil diet long,
Thou didst usurp my place, and dost thou not
With silken coats and caps and golden rings,
I charm you, by my once-commended beauty,
You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter:
They'll be in fresher robes, or they will pluck
Take him hence:
A good soft pillow for that good white head
He will not know what all but he do know:
We are alone, here's none but thee and I.
Of hoarding abbots, imprisoned angels
Faith, stay here this night, they will surely do us
The plate, corn, revenues and moveables,
We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good,
Let them have scope: though what they do impart
Re-enter BOULT
Ay me, I am forsworn!
Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
And die with grieving.
Enter a Messenger
Three times bestrid him, thrice I led him off,
Stand by, a looker on.
Ah, but I think him better than I say,
In my just censure, in my true opinion!
With needless jealosy,
they would have hanged him: and I pray God his bad
Sirrah carrier, what time do you mean to come to London?
Exeunt
house. Shall we thither and with our company piece
To wag their high tops and to make no noise,
I would break a thousand oaths to reign one year.
Whither art going?
Self against self: O, preposterous
Enter Soldiers, with the body of JOHN TALBOT
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
The latest breath that gave the sound of words
In braving arms against thy sovereign.
No, if without more words you will get you hence.
something, make it a word and a blow.
No prophet will I trust, if she prove false.
I dare not drink yet, madam, by and by.
And in submission will attend on her.
Is done to cure it.
That came too lag to see him buried.
Where?
I'll be thy master: walk with me, speak freely.
Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear,
That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose
Madam, here comes my lord.
Nor let no comforter delight mine ear
for she shall not live: no, my heart is turned to
And die as I would do.
For this is from the present--how you take
It is a surplus of your grace, which never
But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon
The nobleman would have dealt with her like a
[To the Citizens]  Hence to your homes, be gone!
They fall their crests, and, like deceitful jades,
I cannot now prove constant to myself,
No longer Celia, but Aliena.
Exit
As thunder threatens us: this is Marina.
extremity of the one, it must needs be.
Where shall we take a purse tomorrow, Jack?
A party in this alteration, finding
To those have shut him up, which failing,
To help me after? I will kiss thy lips,
With comforting repose, and not for us
Will 't hold? will 't hold?
Is it possible?
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
speak, breathe, discuss, brief, short, quick, snap.
From weary wars against the barbarous Goths,
May concern Caesar.
To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion,
Your folly.
And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,
DON
I shall, and bring his answer presently.
My lord, she's not paced yet: you must take some
hath clapped him o' the shoulder, but I'll warrant
Book of Riddles! why, did you not lend it to Alice
That is beloved. How dost thou like this tune?
And so am I for Ganymede.
O'er your content these strong necessities,
My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night:
Let us confess and turn it to a jest.
indeed, his fact, till now in the government of Lord
Who nothing hurt withal hiss'd him in scorn:
Playing the mouse in absence of the cat,
Can stead the quest. At last from Tyre,
joy were now become a loss, cries 'O, thy mother,
Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him
By some discretion, that discerns your state
Ransoming him, or pitying, threatening the other,
My Lord of Westmoreland, lead him to his tent.
I say again, if Lewis do win the day,
Know them from eyes of other mortals?
And that you'll say, ere half an hour pass.
DON
O prince! O cousin! husband! O, the blood is spilt
Swoons rather, for so bad a prayer as his
You have done our pleasures much grace, fair ladies,
[Within]  What, ho! what, ho! what, ho!
Pray thee, marry us.
Ay, but why?
But yet I have no desire to it.
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
As, let 'em have their rights, they are ever forward--
And not deface your honour with reproach?
Come your ways, follow me.
Sound a parley
Whence are you, sir? Has the porter his eyes in his
We thank you all for the great favour done,
more French: I shall never move thee in French,
Enter two British Captains and Soldiers
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
Shall I seem crest-fall'n in my father's sight?
SCENE X. Between the two camps.
performance of your promises.
My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre,
A more sounder instance, come.
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
So thrive it in your game! and so, farewell.
brains. I will fetch you light and paper and ink.
to find you out there: you have well saved me a
First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the people.
SCENE V. OLIVIA's garden.
Exeunt
There is a brief how many sports are ripe:
The day, my friends and all things stay for me.
When Jacob grazed his uncle Laban's sheep--
How could he stay till Warwick made return?
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
Look you sad, friends?
Exit
Good! gramercy.
Comes hunting this way to disport himself.
The more shame for you, Judas.
Supposing that they saw the king's ship wreck'd
If not, to hide what I have said to thee,
Enter ANTONIO, SALARINO, and SALANIO
'Ban, 'Ban, Cacaliban
Shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits
As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose,
Exeunt
Of marching to Philippi presently?
Hilloa, loa!
And hope to joy is little less in joy
Marry, will I	kneel and repeat it, I will stand,
I see a man here needs not live by shifts,
thank you always with my heart, la! with my heart.
Enter GREMIO, LUCENTIO in the habit of a mean man,  PETRUCHIO, with HORTENSIO as a musician, and TRANIO, with BIONDELLO bearing a lute and books
For ever by your grace, whose hand has raised me.
I cannot read them now.
A modest one, to bear me back again.
Who was enroll'd 'mongst wonders, and when we,
For more assurance that a living prince
My high-repented blames,
Re-enter FALSTAFF in woman's clothes, and MISTRESS PAGE
Death is a fearful thing.
Of modern seeming do prefer against him.
A matter from thee, and a birth indeed
the Worthy, but I am to stand for him.
And, having gilt the ocean with his beams,
Must you, Sir John, protect my lady here?
Hath married the fair lady.
tromperies.
Nor to the motion of a schoolboy's tongue,
I have travell'd but two hours.
I do live at my house, and my house doth stand by
I had been mercenary.
So you have: but I was a gentleman born before my
I'll grow less, for I'll purge, and leave sack, and
Enter another Citizen
Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
To show how costly summer was at hand,
Most maculate thoughts, master, are masked under
And, as I earnestly did fix mine eye
Which told me they had beat you to your trenches?
Or do your honour injury.
Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply,
That I should wish for thee to help me curse
Would I were with him, wheresome'er he is, either in
Beat the approaching Caesar. But if we fail,
I hope you will not mock me with a husband.
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
Enter SPEED
Could send such message to their sovereign:
How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,
That long have frown'd upon their enmity!
Ay, I would I were deaf, it makes me have a slow heart.
As rushing out of doors, to be resolved
BRUTUS and SICINIUS go aside
To the succeeding royalty he leaves
Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee,
Your gaoler shall deliver you the keys
And cut your trusters' throats! bound servants, steal!
Even to the hall, to hear what shall become
thy face: and all this done, spurn her home to her
Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers
As mice by lions--hath pick'd out an act,
Thy overflow of good converts to bad,
The interim, pray you, all confound.
But that my coat is better than thou know'st
The way is but short: away!
And the remainder, that shall still depend,
Till I find more than will or words to do it,
With wit enough for thee.
No more will I their babes: tears virginal
With words of sooth! O that I were as great
Whom I proclaim a man of truth, of mercy,
Away with him, I say! hang him with his pen and
The heavens were all on fire, the earth did tremble.
majesty, in my conscience.
I will be with you.
Exit
Of bragging horror: so shall inferior eyes,
Ay, marry, are they, sir.
The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,
Enter three Murderers
To be suspected, framed to make women false.
Exeunt TITUS, LAVINIA, and Young LUCIUS
Your patience so predominant in your nature
I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years
Ha! Goneril, with a white beard! They flattered
And yet we strike not, but securely perish.
fairly in jest.
This to your majesty, this to the queen.
none but libertines delight in him, and the
Mistrust of my success hath done this deed.
Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
Romeo, that she were, O, that she were
Pluck out his eyes.
Still better, and worse.
I have gone all night. 'Faith, I'll lie down and sleep.
Exeunt PRINCE HENRY and LANCASTER
Ay, and as idle as she may hang together, for want
It would seem strange unto him when he waked.
A lunatic lean-witted fool,
Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp'd?
I prithee, Tom, beat Cut's saddle, put a few flocks
Ah, were the Duke of Suffolk now alive,
[To BIANCA]  What, look you pale? O, bear him out
Words before blows: is it so, countrymen?
To ease their stomachs with their bitter tongues.
And this is all.
Have overthrown him.
afraid he would prove the better counterfeit.
Good reverend father, make my person yours,
By revolution lowering, does become
hath them as huge as the rascal. Is the single man
Of its right father. Blossom, speed thee well!
Endure our law: thou'rt dead.
Then meet and join. Jove's lightnings, the precursors
Allow their officers and are content
Pell-mell, down with them! but be first advised,
Dolabella!
Or dead, give's cause to mourn his funeral,
With other princes that may best be spared,
You are, you are--O royal Pericles!
Which we have goaded onward.
I know thy errand, I will go with thee:
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
Hath pawn'd the Sicils and Jerusalem,
Exeunt Servants
Kingdoms and provinces.
Because I will be guiltless of the meaning.
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
For you'll prove perjured if you make me stay.
I am sorry for 't, not seeming
a ship of rich lading wrecked on the narrow seas,
Pray thee, go seek him, and bring him to my tent.
And he shall signify from time to time
What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,
Troth, sir, all is in his hands above: but
Thou stern, obdurate, flinty, rough, remorseless.
Never yet branded with suspicion?
You are like to do such business.
Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
Plantagenet.
horses, by our habits and by every other
Home both in word and deed. Most cruelly
Would you imagine, or almost believe,
Being well arrived from Delphos, are both landed,
Then should not we be tired with this ado.
And, if it be so far beyond his health,
and kindly.
That I might sleep out this great gap of time
So is theirs and ours.
To move wild laughter in the throat of death?
Himself in person there?
Exeunt
Let me have your express opinions
And what wilt thou do? beg, when that is spent?
You know the very road into his kindness,
Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast
Thou hadst but power over his mortal body,
For shame, come down: he made thee Duke of York.
She would be as swift in motion as a ball,
Shalt with him hence.
So the fool follows after.
To-night all friends.
But for because he hath not woo'd me yet:
But God be thanked for prevention,
He goeth down
Enter POINS
And did you leave him in this contemplation?
I pardon him.
Sir, I could perceive nothing at all from her, no,
Thy tears are womanish, thy wild acts denote
And with thine own hands kill me in this place!
Why droops my lord, like over-ripen'd corn,
Which now the public body, which doth seldom
And for Cassio, let me be his undertaker: you
home indeed?
That I am touch'd with madness! Make not impossible
Did they this Harry. Now in London place him,
Have at you for a bitter jest or two!
From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,
My truth-betrothed love and now my wife?
Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach,
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
What profane wretch art thou?
A most incivil one: the wrongs he did me
points in my target, thus.
Advantaging their loan with interest
Fierce to their skill and to their fierceness valiant,
bidding of a monarch and his countenance enforces homage.
executed, and sleep afterwards.
'I would he had'! 'Twas you incensed the rabble:
Proud setter up and puller down of kings!
master's false accusation, and, briefly, I desire
If your honour judge it meet, I will place you
Amen.
Sound a flourish. Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, marching with drum and Soldiers
Look, Hector, how the sun begins to set,
Ten the clock there. Give me a calendar.
You have fought together.
How far off lie these armies?
creatures, their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage.
Nay, if an oily palm be not a fruitful
No, madam, no, I may not leave it so:
Of sallies and retires, of trenches, tents,
I am sorry that by hanging thee I can
Then follow me, and give me audience, friends.
By his command
As he is very potent with such spirits,
That lie and cog and flout, deprave and slander,
You cannot make gross sins look clear:
I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him.
O, sir, to wilful men,
so forcible is thy wit. But I must tell thee
Let Titan rise as early as he dare,
Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh,
He cannot speak, my lord.
When you have given good morning to your mistress,
That I in rage might shoot them at your faces!
My herald is return'd.
Bid them come near.
Exeunt
This airy charm is for, I'll break my staff,
He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy:
To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,
A thing, my lord!
But only hope:
Where fathom-line could never touch the ground,
Come on, come on, where is your boar-spear, man?
Ere they shall make us weep: we'll see 'em starve
What ship of Epidamnum stays for me?
And to the field goes he, where every flower
In noise so rude against me?
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE
On flickering Phoebus' front,--
I do desire the like.
But judge you as you are? O, think on that,
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
Exit
I am not gamesome: I do lack some part
Enter TIMON and Attendants
Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
the humour of it is too hot, that is the very
All bond and privilege of nature, break!
Mark, Marcus, mark! I understand her signs:
Enter OCTAVIA with her train
and a soldier, and now is he turned orthography, his
So hath your highness, never king of England
What effects, my lord? She will sit you, you heard
The swifter speed the better.
And soon I'll rid you from the fear of them.
Romeo will answer it.
As fester'd members rot but by degree,
His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
Exeunt
Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.
Lord John of Lancaster, go you with him.
Enter young LUCIUS, and LAVINIA running after him,  and the boy flies from her, with books under his arm. Then enter TITUS and MARCUS
That appertain unto a burial.
Liberty! Freedom! Tyranny is dead!
God save you, sir! where have you been broiling?
In Caesar's name pronounce I 'gainst thee: look
O let no noble eye profane a tear
As many arrows, loosed several ways,
Did ever raven sing so like a lark,
What page's suit she hath in readiness.
star, or at an earthquake, 'twould mend the lottery
To greet a man not worth her pains, much less
Tush, Gremio, though it pass your patience and mine
No, my good lord, I am the very man,--
His heart is fracted and corroborate.
So they are,
She's too hard for you at pricks, sir: challenge her to bowl.
Nay, Got's lords and his ladies! you must speak
To the great love I bear you,--
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
To thee a woman's services are due:
Not in the legions
O monstrous! O strange! we are haunted. Pray,
The king hath on him such a countenance
That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
this condition, to be whipped at the high cross
[Within]  I thought to have asked you.
Money buys lands, and wives are sold by fate.
against the softness of prosperity, with a discovery
And they shall say, when Richard me begot,
I were malicious else.
Not like a guest, so you shall pay your fees
We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a
To kill the king at Oxford.
Four legs and two voices: a most delicate monster!
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
Do it with gentle means and easy tasks:
A proclaim'd prize! Most happy!
damned for this, the devil himself will have no
Within the scorched veins of one new-burn'd.
amazed, call all your senses to you, defend your
Enter EGEUS, HERMIA, LYSANDER, and DEMETRIUS
Enforce him with his envy to the people,
Tongue, lose thy light,
Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
I will look further into't. But where's my fool? I
Awake, awake, English nobility!
Old I do wax, and from my weary limbs
Waked by the lark, hath roused the ribald crows,
Which oft infects the wisest: these, my lord,
Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders
Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer
What music is this?
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
Importune him once more to go, my lord,
Where folly now possesses? Do thou work:
'Tween man and man: but thou, thou meagre lead,
That from the seedness the bare fallow brings
Very foul.
But I will eat and drink, and sleep as soft
Now, in the names of all the gods at once,
Here comes Navarre.
That may give furtherance to our expedition,
O woful day, O woful day!
porpus how he bounced and tumbled? they say
As cause doth minister. Go call at Flavius' house,
Old lord, I cannot blame thee,
Exeunt
Why, there 'tis, so say I too.
Fools are not mad folks.
Than I am able to instruct or teach:
Methinks he seems no bigger than his head:
There then, how then? what then? Let me see wherein
And proved the subject of my own soul's curse,
But lately, very late: I loved him, friend,
That shall you, and take your leave of all your friends.
Peace, ho! Hear Antony. Most noble Antony!
Nominativo, hig, hag, hog, pray you, mark:
To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind
Tombless, with no remembrance over them:
I know it,
Might have found easy fines: but there to end
Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence.
He is too good and fair for death and me:
Makes heaven drowsy with the harmony.
It was well done, and thou shalt sleep again,
What we so fear'd he had a charge to do.
Will then be pang'd by me. Prithee, dispatch:
You.
To hold your hand more close: I did endure
Come, leave your drinking, and fall to blows.
but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I
'Whoop, do me no harm, good man.'
Good work, you and your cry! Shall's to the Capitol?
O'erstunk their feet.
Exeunt
Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong,
Within  'A way there, a way for Caesar!'
Lest, in her greatness, by some mortal stroke
He call'd her whore: a beggar in his drink
like a poor man's right in the law, 'twill hardly
Be all my sins remember'd.
I have inform'd his highness so at large
Go to, say you nothing. There's a division betwixt
Ten leagues beyond man's life, she that from Naples
God send her quickly!
howsoever you colour it in being a tapster, are you
continue in his courses till thou knowest what they
Till thou art here aloft, or I below:
'Tis wonderful!
I will tell the king all, every word, yea, and his
Which I have sometime known.
Enter Attendants
Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers
My fairy lord, this must be done with haste,
Take thy commission.
We'll slip you for a season, but our jealousy
It is no matter if the tied were lost, for it is the
If one good deed in all my life I did,
What is her burying grave that is her womb,
Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird,
It is almost morning,
Those men you talk of came into my mind.
better man than I am?
As many as you please.
'Tis he:--O brave Iago, honest and just,
Rich, only to be wretched, thy great fortunes
Puts my apparel and my countenance on,
Enter DIOMEDES and a Servant
been the finder out of this secret, it would not
RICHARD
When we grow stronger, then we'll make our claim:
Ay, he.
By him that justly may
I will from henceforth rather be myself,
FLAMINIUS waiting. Enter a Servant to him
Tarquin seven hurts i' the body.
As Ovid be an outcast quite abjured:
Nay, you might keep that cheque for it till you met
The king would speak with Cornwall, the dear father
Was made a wonder and a pointing-stock
I have no tongue but one: gentle my lord,
I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart.
This shall ye do, so help you righteous God!
understandings for thy cases and the numbers of the
Express impatience, lest you stir up mine.
Make room, and let him stand before our face.
Hark ye,
How, my love!
Why, what should be the fear?
I am sure of that: and at her late being here
your letter.
There's an Italian come, and, 'tis thought, one of
Enter a Beadle with whips
To me, blood-thirsty lord,
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Than such that do e'en enemies exceed.
He did, from first to last: why dost thou ask?
By which the property of youth and maidhood
True.
My hands are of your colour, but I shame
A breed for barren metal of his friend?
Look, on the sheets his hair you see, is sticking,
Being ten times undervalued to tried gold?
And, being men, bearing the will of Caesar,
Her head's declined, and death will seize her, but
Sir, let me speak with you in your chamber: you
To live and burn in everlasting fire,
Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
Let not the world see fear and sad distrust
Which then will speak, that you must
A happy and a joyful time of day!
This dream is all amiss interpreted,
To wear our mortal state to come with her,
By deed-achieving honour newly named,--
And not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch
Can hold the mortise? What shall we hear of this?
Jove bless great Ajax!
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads,
[Within]  Let him knock till it ache.
And by and by I will to thee appear.
imputation of his wickedness by your rule, should be
Did vail their crowns to his supremacy:
My business is a word or two with Claudio.
England and Ireland, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
and there is an end.
waiting-gentlewoman in the 'scape. This has been
Enter a second Messenger
And, by God's mother, I, being but a bachelor,
the bottom of the news is that our general is cut i'
For forth he goes and visits all his host.
Which they have given to beggars.
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
Like a bold flood o'er-bear. O, come, go in,
If thou inclinest that way, thou art a coward,
pancakes were naught and the mustard was good, and
And though you call my course unnatural,
Exeunt
observation we have made of it hath not been
He'll stay my lord.
But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
Are ye so hot, sir? yet, Pucelle, hold thy peace,
The queen your mother rounds apace: we shall
It is a reeling world, indeed, my lord,
He is both king and Duke of Lancaster,
liking, I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I
I tell thee, constable, my mistress wears his own hair.
Against this cruelty fight on thy side,
You grow exceeding strange: must it be so?
Offer'st me brass?
your wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.
Persuade this rude wretch willingly to die.
That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanch,
English condition. Fare ye well.
let me in.
And flaky darkness breaks within the east.
Of excellent dissembling, and let it look
Since she is living, let the time run on
Good ladies, let's go. Yes, yes, yes, the senate
A treacherous army levied, one midnight
You may,
To KING LEWIS XI
'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs,
And mine, with my heart in't, and now farewell
Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
As bring me to the sight of Isabella,
Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
Take this fellow in, and send for
But let it be: I am quickly ill, and well,
I will say nothing.
to Madam Silvia, which, out of my neglect, was never done.
As this ingrate and canker'd Bolingbroke.
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
Ah, soldier!
O my good lord,
And for these great affairs do ask some charge,
Which, to say sooth, are blessings, and which gifts,
I have't. It is engender'd. Hell and night
My wind cooling my broth
I'll wait upon you instantly.
What though he love your Hermia? Lord, what though?
Lend less than thou owest,
And her immortal part with angels lives.
My father is not dead, for all your saying.
Not know me yet?
More bitterly could I expostulate,
Extremity out of act. What were thy friends?
What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
Aside
Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers!
To stay for me at church 'twixt twelve and one,
Be it so, go back: the virtue of your name
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
And cried 'all hail!' when as he meant all harm.
Give way there, and go on!
[Aside]          What from Antioch?
My sword should shed hot blood, mine eyes no tears.
That cause sets up with and against itself!
The one the other poison'd for my sake,
Cut him to pieces.
dangerous thing, and every man that means to live
What art thou?
And that I love him not as I was wont.
Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give
To have their balmy slumbers waked with strife.
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
More calf, certain.
In state of health thou say'st, and thou say'st free.
Might shake off fifty, looking in her eye:
but fare you well.
Not lack your company.
capon and eat it? wherein cunning, but in craft?
Thy state of law is bondslave to the law, And thou--
That holds in chase mine honour up and down?
1. A lively flourish of Trumpets.
And mar the seeds within! Lift up thy looks:
Having no warrant.
With true-love showers.
If he suspect I may dishonour him:
The time of night when Troy was set on fire,
He came not back: he is or ta'en or slain.
Soft! I will go along,
He'll soon find means to make the body follow.
My lord, to step out of these dreary dumps,
O gross and miserable ignorance!
Which thou takest from me. When thou camest first,
Almost midnight, madam.
Respecting this our marriage with the dowager,
Faith, I'll not meddle in't. Let her be as she is:
Their mediation, must I be unfolded
Will be here with mop and mow.
Thy Edward he is dead, that stabb'd my Edward:
Exit
That I did.
coil at home: it is proved my Lady Hero hath been
are they that hear their detractions and can put
Bon jour, Monsieur Le Beau: what's the news?
Emilia, come. Be as your fancies teach you,
By gar, with all my heart. He promise to bring me
Only the adulterous Antony, most large
Of his superior, grows to an envious fever
To hunt this day: the boy Fidele's sickness
He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
There are some shrewd contents in yon same paper,
Kind gentlemen, let's go see poor Cassio dress'd.
His servant live, and will his vassal die:
To have him kill a king: poor trespasses,
Immediately to marry: she hath consented: Now, sir,
he keeps the wind!
When the hurlyburly's done,
When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts
What is the matter, sir?
And I am going with instruction to him.
My being here it is that holds thee hence:
I charge your charity withal, leaving her
Presenting a small box
Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head,
Thou movest no less with thy complaining than
So Judas did to Christ: but he, in twelve,
As if our hands, our sides, voices and minds,
And you.
Mordake the Earl of Fife, and eldest son
So I heard you say.
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Is she not apt?
that's mended is but patched: virtue that
Enter PUCK behind
Burthen [dispersedly, within
To-morrow, or at further space, to appear
Exit Widow
it fitteth not a prelate so to plead.
Of thy misprision must perforce ensue
Contract us 'fore these witnesses.
The very all of all is,--but, sweet heart, I do
Come, let us to the castle.
O love! O life! not life, but love in death!
every morning.
Do, good old grandsire, and withal make known
glad thou canst speak no better English, for, if
No, not my body nor my husband's bed:
He said the truth: and what said Surrey then?
Strikes him
As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
Call for our chiefest men of discipline,
Pray, speak what has happen'd.
the scratching of thee, I would make thee the
Wherein he puts alms for oblivion,
No way to fly, nor strength to hold out flight:
Concur together, severally entreat him.
These numbers will I tear, and write in prose.
Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge,
I say the earth did shake when I was born.
I pray the gods she may with all my heart!
Yes, I do know him well, and common speech
Together with his mangled Myrmidons,
you a song now.
I had rather be their servant in my way,
Sing, siren, for thyself and I will dote:
Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius.
To burn the errors that these princes hold
Exeunt
Now, as I can remember, by my troth,
The art itself is nature.
You'll take it ill.
Or void the field, they do offend our sight:
have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
That will betime, and may by us be fitted.
Be it so.
Incapable and shallow innocents,
Why he, a harmless necessary cat,
My heart hath melted at a lady's tears,
The common file--a plague! tribunes for them!--
No, girl, I'll knit it up in silken strings
Pray You, fetch him hither.
Exeunt
cannot be spoken of. There might you have beheld one
Within the earth, and, therein laid,--there lies
For fear lest day should look their shames upon,
force of honesty can translate beauty into his
them: for they wear themselves in the cap of the
I thought of her,
Your highness told me I should post before.
Ajax renown'd. O heavens, what some men do,
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
Cannot once start me.
No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil,
Away, then! I am lock'd in one of them:
Enter MARCIUS
Good heaven, the souls of all my tribe defend
O death, made proud with pure and princely beauty!
I'll give you Aquitaine and all that is his,
Dearer than eye-sight, space, and liberty,
For fear they die before their pardon come.
Whence cometh this alarum and the noise?
And pluck it o'er your brows, muffle your face,
I will do so.
She had transform'd me to a curtal dog and made
I am the sea, hark, how her sighs do blow!
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus
I'll through and through you! and, thou great-sized coward,
And hast a thing within thee called conscience,
Still, still, far wide!
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
Our doctors say this is no month to bleed.
My ancient incantations are too weak,
Is partly to behold my lady's face,
Re-enter Second and Third Fishermen, drawing up a net
But yield me to the veriest hind that shall
In time I may believe, yet I mistrust.
But buffets better than a fist of France:
On whom I may confer what I have got:
This will I also wear in my cap: if ever thou come
Who will of thy arrival be full joyous.
Retires
Nor wear the diadem upon his head,
Then all afire with me: the king's son, Ferdinand,
point, heel to head, and then, to be stopped in,
A letter for me! it gives me an estate of seven
And from thy burgonet I'll rend thy bear
An if what pleases him shall pleasure you.
To the last article: my lord shall never rest,
SCENE IV. The forest.
They fight again
The eldest son of this distressed queen.
Ay, madam, it is common.
You know me, do you not?
I do say thou art quick in answers: thou heatest my blood.
Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore.
I will obey thee. Helicanus!
have received my proportion, like the prodigious
And love you 'gainst the nature of love,--force ye.
whose names yet run smoothly in the even road of a
Which Pericles hath lost,
Exit EDGAR
Whate'er Lord Harry Percy then had said
My mistress, dearest,
He said mine eyes were black and my hair black:
Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
I fear me, never.
Exeunt
When we have soil'd them, nor the remainder viands
Therefore I'll darkly end the argument.
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
Why, stand-under and under-stand is all one.
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
blackberries? a question not to be asked. Shall
Call Buckingham, and all the friends thou hast,
marriage honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord
Sick now! droop now! this sickness doth infect
By heaven, I think my sword's as sharp as yours:
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Most holy sir, I thank you.
Yet, for a greater confirmation,
ANDREW AGUECHEEK.
Sound trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, CARDINAL, SOMERSET, with Attendants
Till he disbursed at Saint Colme's inch
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
This is as uncivil as strange. I beseech you, do me
Reads
I will about it straight,
Howl, howl, howl, howl! O, you are men of stones:
more detraction at your heels than fortunes before
Call up Lord Stanley, bid him bring his power:
you are reverend grave men, yet they lie deadly that
The love of Valentine and love Sir Thurio?
no great argument of her folly, for I will be
complexion.
God-den to your worship, good Captain James.
Troilus now! You shall see Troilus anon.
Of her two branches, those sweet ornaments,
KING JOHN dies
It were well
Lesser his person than an ill report,
A madman so long, now a fool. What, think'st
My bosky acres and my unshrubb'd down,
Did bear him like a noble gentleman.
For well I wot that Henry is no soldier.
The anger of the king nor guilty of,
'Through, in pure truth, it was corrupt and naught,
To fortune's alms.
Why dost ask that? I have forgot all men,
Here are the keys, there sits the duke asleep:
Some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme.
Good morrow, old Sir Thomas Erpingham:
Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime,
it, and he that I gave it to in change promised to
In humblest manner I require your highness,
Let her alone, lady: as she is now, she will but
twenty, take them all, I'll answer the coinage. Bid
cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul
Exeunt
To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh
me his natural brother: therefore use thy
She is as forward of her breeding as
his dole! They can tell you how things go better
No?
I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come,
I'll wake mine eye-balls blind first.
Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.
Solemn and strange music
Thought is free.
In our remove be thou at full ourself,
And give them life whom hunger starved half dead.
Exit
Daughter, remember what I told you: if the prince
Cannot amend me, society is no comfort
What say you now? what comfort have we now?
Do we, my lord?
Villain, thou liest, for even her very words
Exit
will give over all.
Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
In all that I can do.
I cannot tell what the dickens his name is my
Who hath upon him still that natural stamp:
As now our flesh is banish'd from this land:
Your ear is good. Cassius, what night is this!
But come, young waverer, come, go with me,
your several dwelling-places, and not to wear,
To be inclined my way!
He is coming.
[Advancing]  Dumain, thy love is far from charity.
Amidst the other, whose medicinable eye
Nay, that's right, but why wear you your leek today?
That if about this hour he make his way
Exit BRAKENBURY
IMOGEN in bed, reading, a Lady attending
Is, that she will to virtuous Desdemona
Make wells and Niobes of the maids and wives,
And sight of men.
Conceit, my comfort and my injury.
modest assurance if you be the lady of the house,
Yes, truly is he, and condemn'd upon't.
Shall I bend low and in a bondman's key,
What man thou art.
So turns she every man the wrong side out
have before gored the gentle bosom of peace with
Of things that merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd,
Not light them for themselves, for if our virtues
wears the marble.
Let's follow the old earl, and get the Bedlam
Kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain.
For valiant doings in their country's cause?
Now, good Cesario, but that piece of song,
Calm thee, and bear the faults of Titus' age,
I thank you, sir.
Could deem his dignity?
fool for fancy, as you would have it appear he is.
That is the best news: that the Earl of Richmond
To ransack Troy, within whose strong immures
Your followers I will whisper to the business,
To demonstrate the life of such a battle
Could have attain'd the effect of your own purpose,
In doing daily wrongs. I could say more,
The noble tribunes are the people's mouths,
will go about with him. Come you hither, sirrah, a
Talbot is taken, whom we wont to fear:
foul breath, and foul breath is noisome, therefore I
That
That is, because the traitor murderer lives.
him.
Your mind from feasting. Sooth, when I was young
Thou mine of bounty, how wouldst thou have paid
As that proud dame, the lord protector's wife.
You mainly were stirr'd up.
other issue?
Believe me, no: I thank my fortune for it,
The rite of May, and hearing our intent,
Let me but bind it hard, within this hour
The white cold virgin snow upon my heart
Now.
Beauteous as ink, a good conclusion.
For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride?
I do not like this news.
Beware my follower. Peace, Smulkin, peace, thou fiend!
Thou hast no weapon, and perforce must suffer.
Mean you to enjoy him?
Is 'plain and true,' there's all the reach of it.
No, nor of any shores:
It doth not fit me. Hold, sir, here's my purse.
he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let him
They are, my lord, without the palace gate.
Enter SERVILIUS
Obey the bride, you that attend on her,
And break your own neck down.
[Reads]  'Imprimis, it is agreed between the French
Change it, change it,
An thou hadst hated meddlers sooner, thou shouldst
'Tis done, my gracious lord.
Biron did swear himself out of all suit.
That's due to all the villains past, in being,
If he outlive the envy of this day,
ACT II
Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt,
Set but thy foot
To rescue my two brothers from their death:
defence absence. What beast couldst thou be, that
That could conceive a gross and foolish sire
I love him not nor hate him not, and yet
Without a prompter. Where will you that I go
What ruins are in me that can be found,
Nothing concerning me.
If that shepherd be not in hand-fast, let him fly:
The naked truth of it is, I have no shirt, I go
And full as oft came Edward to my side,
Than what not stirs. The cry went once on thee,
Do one pluck down another and together
That she would soon be here.
Besides, I met Lord Bigot and Lord Salisbury,
When it is born in high authority:
The owner of the house I did inquire for?
Here PROSPERO discovers FERDINAND and MIRANDA playing at chess
But vows to every purpose must not hold:
'Go to thou art made, if thou desirest to be so,'--
Have with thee, Pole. Farewell, ambitious Richard.
Of better deeds to-morrow. Rest you happy!
For Henry weeps that thou dost live so long.
Enter a Doctor
Before you find it other. All the regions
I think I had, I never did deny it.
There is enough written upon this earth
Please it your grace lead on?
Husband, let's follow, to see the end of this ado.
Drop in my neck: as it determines, so
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
But how should this man, that makes
Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous.
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,
Enough, my lord.
Who's that that bears the sceptre?
My mother, being heir unto the crown
Trust not to rotten planks: do you misdoubt
So, at his sight, away his fellows fly,
you two would marry.
And mourn you for him: let him be regarded
Do me no slander, Douglas: by my life,
Let me hire him too: here's my coxcomb.
I do not sleep: I see, I hear, I speak,
This is thy negligence: still thou mistakest,
Till he had forged himself a name o' the fire
To make your speed to Dover, you shall find
Hate him perniciously, and, o' my conscience,
Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
That instant was I turn'd into a hart,
I'll to the Centaur, to go seek this slave:
Good ancestors.
Dew-lapp'd like bulls, whose throats had hanging at 'em
Pleasant and helpful to him!
I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own
After a well-graced actor leaves the stage,
set on thy horns. O powerful love! that, in some
Peace to his soul, if God's good pleasure be!
'Lack, good youth!
Such Ethiope words, blacker in their effect
Bury him where you can, he comes not here.
Presents a letter
they purpose their services. Besides, there is no
ANTIPHOLUS
Exeunt POMPEY and ABHORSON
Alas, how can we for our country pray.
Treason is not inherited, my lord,
All my reports go with the modest truth,
Welcome, destruction, death, and massacre!
Being compact of credit, that you love us,
I, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion,
Know you that Friar Lodowick that she speaks of?
Look to your little mistress, on whose grace
Outlive thy glory, like my wretched self!
Nay, then, thus:
I do suspect thee very grievously.
Henceforth I charge you, as you love our favour,
Will this work?
And, to begin, wench,--so God help me, la!--
What counsel, lords? Edward from Belgia,
And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life,
And that a winged Mercury did bear:
Brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs,
Awake, dear heart, awake! thou hast slept well, Awake!
And would conceive for what I gave the ring
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
So can I give no reason, nor I will not,
You have a double tongue within your mask,
I protest, the schoolmaster is exceeding
A young man married is a man that's marr'd:
Pleads he in earnest? look upon his face,
That's your superstition.
kill him, by this sword, I will.
An if she were a thornier piece of ground than she
kingdom with a dagger of lath, and drive all thy
I must go look my twigs: he shall be caught.
And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little,--
May not fly forth of Egypt. Hast thou affections?
For patience she will prove a second Grissel,
He sups to-night with a harlotry, and thither will I
else, nor that well neither.
A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.
your lordship. You are most hot and furious when you win.
And let her head fall into England's lap.
My dangerous cousin, let your mother in:
And what wit could wit have to excuse that?
Your honour's players, heating your amendment,
These both put by a poor petitioner,
O most false love!
Enter HOTSPUR and DOUGLAS
make an exchange, therefore discase thee instantly,
My father will grant precious things as trifles.
the knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his
And twice to-day pick'd out the dullest scent:
Out of sight and raise this present head,
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES' palace.
O' horseback, ye cuckoo, but afoot he will not budge a foot.
The hearers to collection, they aim at it,
And on it said a century of prayers,
Enter FORD
The which if you with patient ears attend,
What, hast not thou full often struck a doe,
As she in beauty, education, blood,
He is in Rome.
Protest their first of manhood.
Your noble emperor and his lovely bride,
Where, being but young, I framed to the harp
There will we dine. This woman that I mean,
And say I am Revenge, sent from below
He makes for England, there to claim the crown.
And follow to thine answer.
Which shall to all our nights and days to come
Forced to retire by fury of the wind:
'Anon he finds him
Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,
At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven.
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
Exeunt
It's almost morning, is't not?
Yet the incessant weepings of my wife,
Upon the hatches: thence we looked toward England,
Moreover, urge his hateful luxury
Else, farewell Talbot, France, and England's honour.
That Bevis was believed.
May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
Alarums. Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS wounded
I swear I will not die to-day for any man's
Out of your best advice.
I shall remember more. Bid him--ah, what?--
Must make perforce an universal prey,
Enter Chorus
as you love Phebe, meet: and as I love no woman,
In the whole world: but yet let me lament,
So dissolute a crew.
Say he be taken, rack'd and tortured,
A vapour sometime like a bear or lion,
That the poor soldier that so richly fought,
And this is he was his adopted heir.
O grandsire, grandsire! even with all my heart
A gentler scion to the wildest stock,
An 'twere to me, I should be mad at it.
What part is that, my lord?
That nothing can allay, nothing but blood,
Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing?
And state of bodies would bewray what life
And, look, when I am king, claim thou of me
Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir!
All lovers young, all lovers must
you know, in his rages, and his furies, and his
Exit CASSIO
count's serving-man than ever she bestowed upon me,
To fright the animals and to kill them up
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more,
The letter was not nice but full of charge
Will we sing, and bless this place.
Exeunt
To compass wonders but by help of devils.
In several hands, in at his windows throw,
I see no reason, if I wear this rose,
With the dove of Paphos might the crow
Of nature and of nations speak aloud
To tell you where he lodges, is to tell you where I lie.
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
open. I will be proud, I will read politic authors,
he says is here now in the house by your consent, to
and debile minister, great power, great
This tractable obedience is a slave
that they make, the devils mar five.
Enter MENENIUS and Senators
I pray you, see him presently discharged,
I have been dear to him, lad, some two thousand
To visit you, my lord, no other occasion.
Live thou, I live: with much, much more dismay
Under your good correction, I have seen,
master,--I may call him my master, look you, for I
Therefore, brave conquerors,--for so you are,
Exeunt
hope to see a housewife take thee between her legs
I'll kiss each several paper for amends.
Your mistresses dare never come in rain,
The offences we have made you do we'll answer,
Exit BAPTISTA
And be no turncoats: yet may your pains, six months,
The shadow of myself form'd in her eye:
Now here a period of tumultuous broils.
Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep,
Go thou to Friar Penker, bid them both
earth we make loam, and why of that loam, whereto he
Go thou to Richard, and good angels guard thee!
Because what follows is pure innocence.
Persuade the queen to send the Duke of York
When I have chased all thy foes from hence,
Upon his own report and I believe it,
The fourth son, York claims it from the third.
To the strict deputy, bid herself assay him:
Freely, good father.
seven groats in mill-sixpences, and two Edward
To-day in our young lords, but they may jest
Of whom he's chief, with all the size that verity
To swear against you? such things have been done.
Even for that our love of old, I prithee,
Take thrice thy money, bid me tear the bond.
By yielding up thy body to my will,
And stemming it with hearts of controversy,
Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die:
somebody had heard her talk yesterday, as I did. I
for the place where, where, I mean, I did encounter
is no whipstock: my lady has a white hand, and the
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
Which else should free have wrought.
Or God will punish me. I do believe,
Re-enter OTHELLO
I desire to find him so, that I may worthily note him.
More than his reason. But 'tis a common proof,
had you rather lead mine eyes, or eye your master's heels?
The senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased
good fire. But, sure, he is the prince of the
Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you
I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee:
O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds!
Their coin upon large interest, I myself
That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus,
And that my sword upon thee shall approve,
rather, gentle princess, because I love thee
Upon his good and gracious nature hanging
For the rain it raineth every day.
What with him? he comes not
You see this fellow that is gone before,
Enter a Roman and a Volsce, meeting
Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew
Within these two months, that's a month before
That takes away by any secret course
Because it is a customary cross,
Ay, my good lord, your royal preparation
My word and promise to the emperor,
My mind was troubled with deep melancholy.
Our pleasure his full fortune doth confine:
your eyes, with your arms crossed on your thin-belly
It will have blood, they say, blood will have blood:
That speak my salutation in their minds,
Enter Clown
Ariel plays the tune on a tabour and pipe
The king himself in person is set forth,
We have this hour a constant will to publish
Where is he?
I cry your honour mercy, you may, worst
How might we disguise him?
For he hath stolen a pax, and hanged must a' be:
Cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke.
cry 'The devil!'
open't. What's within, boy?
And now at length they overflow their banks.
And mine, two hundred:
For every man has business and desire,
Thou shouldst desire to die, being miserable.
And here another: the one of them imports
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
I pray you, upon what?
Sir, the maid loves you, and all shall be well. We
Whose figure even this instant cloud puts on,
Else ne'er could they hold out so as they do.
Of blue Olympus.
And not against his friends, his noble hand
A distance from her, while her grace sat down
That were impossible: but, I pray you both,
Who, though they cannot answer my distress,
poor old woman. That same knave Ford, her husband,
Well, what would you say?
Indeed, he hath an excellent good name.
for a week escape a great deal of discoveries, but
Or if he do, let it at least be said
Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves,
When there is nothing living but thee, thou shalt be
Blood will I draw on thee, thou art a witch,
But Exeter hath given the doom of death
Hath she forgot already that brave prince,
Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects,
How so, sir? Did she change her determination?
[Within]  Have at you with another, that's--When?
I know my hour is come.
Uncles of Gloucester and of Winchester,
Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts,
To hide your doings, and to silence that,
And mannerly distinguishment leave out
stand still, it is shame, by my hand: and there is
How now, my son!
[Aside]  O, ho, I know the riddle.--I will go.
Hath too much mangled, whose repair and franchise
Hath been as dear as Helen, I mean, of ours:
Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent
That walked about me every minute-while,
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
forget that thou art Jove, the king of gods and,
And that my sovereign's presence makes me mild,
Not so, gentle beast:
Please it your grace, there is a messenger
A crow without feather? Master, mean you so?
Clap round fines for neglect: ye are lazy knaves,
A beauty-waning and distressed widow,
Forbear, for shame, my lords.
But is this true, sir?
And citizens to their dens: the death of Antony
His wonders and his praises do contend
Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't
'Tis well you offer it behind her back,
And thus expiring do foretell of him:
Seals a commission to a blank of danger,
Ay, and a kind one too:
Myself in counsel, his competitor.
But I return his sworn and mortal foe:
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Enter a Messenger
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  He were the worse for that,
For idiots in this case of favour would
He, on his right, asking a wife for Edward.
He waxes desperate with imagination.
[Within]  The Lord protect him! so we answer him:
Then is there mirth in heaven,
Such short-lived wits do wither as they grow.
Thou'rt i' the right. Go, sir, rub your chain with
Which since we cannot do to make you friends,
And I will overhear their conference.
My lord, when shall we go to Cheapside and take up
And still is friend to him and Margaret:
For more is to be said and to be done
I hold my most malicious foe, and think not
Beseech you, father.
How say you by this change?
[Aside]  Pray heaven she win him!
To say the dead are well: bring it to that,
He hath, and is again to cope your wife:
Many that have at times made moan to me,
Besides, this sorrow is an enemy,
And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.
O, cry your mercy, sir.
Counsel o' the war, but at his nurse's tears
May stand more proper, my eye shall be the stream
Tush, thou art deceived:
This letter from Bellario doth commend
There was a friar told me of this man.
Hum, ha!
Exeunt
If any power pities wretched tears,
Had not your man put up the fowl so suddenly,
My poverty, but not my will, consents.
Bless this unworthy husband? he cannot thrive,
Thy mother felt more than a mother's pain,
Fear'st thou that, Antonio?
The first was Menelaus' kiss, this, mine:
To the warm sun!
well. Those healths will make thee and thy state
And on his more advice we pardon him.
I would have been a breakfast to the beast,
And finds them perfect Richard. Sirrah, speak,
And follow me, that will to some provision
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
Is the initiate fear that wants hard use:
seems he to be touched?
Therefore, my lord, it highly us concerns
Distinction should be rich in. Where? how lived You?
the king my old master must be relieved. There is
Why answer not the double majesties
But screw your courage to the sticking-place,
Hath banish'd moody discontented fury,
Moreover, if you please, a niece of mine
I am resolved.
Is noble Timon: of whose memory
Hide thy head, Achilles: here comes Hector in arms.
Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair
Now make your choice.
Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly
But now, Baptists, to your younger daughter:
Now fear is from me, I'll speak troth. Lord Cloten,
Brother, I advise you to the best, go armed: I
And having brought our treasure where we will,
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
But, in the cutting it, if thou dost shed
Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state,
Even so remorseless have they borne him hence,
Patroclus ta'en or slain, and Palamedes
For he himself is subject to his birth:
Pardon him, sweet Timandra, for his wits
To rot itself with motion.
I shall be well content with any choice
Between Lord Perigort and the beauteous heir
Come, come,
And choke the herbs for want of husbandry.
Of these delated articles allow.
You, merchant, have you any thing to say?
Worst in this royal presence may I speak,
Seeing how loathly opposite I stood
Sweat in this business and maintain this war?
is turned out of all towns and cities for a
Leave me alone to woo him. Let's away,
For Edward's sake, and see how he requites me!
Poor tributary rivers as sweet fish.
She is beholding to thee, gentle youth.
Or I am mad, or else this is a dream:
Isidore's Servant	From Isidore,
Abates the ardour of my liver.
SCENE III. A monastery.
Like Caesar's sister: the wife of Antony
Do you see, gentlemen? nay, guiltiness will speak,
Exeunt PEMBROKE and STAFFORD
Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day:
And bear the palm alone.
And not of any challenge of desert,
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
Give me leave to speak.
Enter PUCK
Give me their bodies, that I may bear them hence
O my Antonio, I do know of these
Why, sir, I brought you word an hour since that the
semblance of a maid,--that you have discovered
And do not interrupt me in my course.
Who, with some other of the lords dependants,
If I can get him within my pistol's length,
Sir, my gracious lord,
Do not you love him, madam?
And that same dew, which sometime on the buds
Jaques of Chatillon, admiral of France,
The one, to save the money that he spends in
Here is to Caesar!
So sweet was ne'er so fatal. I must weep,
breach, and we talk, and, be Chrish, do nothing:
As he controll'd the war, but one of these--
That have beheld the doing.
We are fit to bid her welcome.
O, you are novices! 'tis a world to see,
And I wish, my liege,
You have put me into rhyme.
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
Be my retentive enemy, my gaol?
But doth rebate and blunt his natural edge
She is a gallant creature, and complete
How, how! another?
That every stride he makes upon my land
I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her.
Of dull Octavia. Shall they hoist me up
But you should pity me!
As one unworthy all the former favours
No, precious creature,
Antonius dead!--If thou say so, villain,
[To the Soothsayer]  The ides of March are come.
Come, come, you're mocking: we will have no telling.
Exeunt Servants
Or what his death will bring us.
And buried once, why not upon my head?
O God, that Somerset, who in proud heart
Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,
Lord Mortimer, and cousin Glendower,
such things as you, I can scarce think there's any,
True, and thy master a shepherd.
Now I must
The wrong I did myself, which was so much,
Out!
You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?
thou hast leisure, say thy prayers, when thou hast
With such a costly loss of wealth and friends:
What says the silver with her virgin hue?
caduceus, if ye take not that little, little less
Those that slew thy virgin knight,
But presently prevent the ways to wail.
guides. Who comes here?
To hear from him a matter of some moment:
Of hostile arms! myself myself confound!
If imputation and strong circumstances,
If thou neglect'st or dost unwillingly
Buz, buz!
Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice?
SCENE I. The heath.
That should have murdered Bassianus here.
And dallies with the innocence of love,
Enter SALANIO and SALARINO
Call him hither, good Monsieur Le Beau.
And that the legions now in Gallia are
No, by my soul, she was not,
And tell them, there thy fixed foot shall grow
Then you are weakly made: pluck off a little,
that I should quickly have a new father.
Open Thy gate of mercy, gracious God!
Big Mars seems bankrupt in their beggar'd host
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
Good arms, strong joints, true swords, and,
A wilderness is populous enough,
I do beseech you, know me.
Ere he by sickness had been visited:
I daily vow to use it. Come and lead me
Thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine,
I assure you, there is very excellent services
Hark, countrymen! either renew the fight,
Enter MACBETH, and a Servant with a torch
Of murderous lechers: and in the mature time
Now lays upon you.
generally thankful.
Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst,
Let it be call'd the wild and wandering flood,
I am to learn,
That we remain your friend, and so, adieu.
For my poor son.
But what's that Pucelle whom they term so pure?
Evils enow to darken all his goodness:
Lieth down, the Judges,  and c., pass by him, and Exeunt
No hare, sir, unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,
I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius,
struck him first, yet it's no matter for that.
word of mouth, set upon Aguecheek a notable report
That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt,
Enter HASTINGS
Most noble Caesar, shalt thou have report
Him will I tear out of that cruel eye,
are now to examination these men.
Who have we here? Rome's royal empress,
Let me have judgment and the Jew his will.
And be a boy right out.
And to our sport.
A largess universal like the sun
Call him in.
All is the fear and nothing is the love,
Either his notion weakens, his discernings
Yet who's so blind, but says he sees it not?
Victorious Talbot! pardon my abuse:
every man should beat thee: I think thou wast
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
Give me my boots, I say, saddle my horse.
And giddy Fortune's furious fickle wheel,
More of this matter cannot I report:
Thy words, I grant, are bigger, for I wear not
Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
If I were much in love with vanity!
I prithee, lady, go away with me.
Yet do our hearts wear Timon's livery,
Upon our sides it never shall be broken.
Here, man, I am at thy elbow.
Relent, sweet Hermia: and, Lysander, yield
Where as the king and queen do mean to hawk.
The music plays
The Tower, the Tower.
Thunder and lightning. Enter CAESAR, in his night-gown
You are not wood, you are not stones, but men,
Stand not upon the order of your going,
And find no harbour in a royal heart.
Led by the Dauphin.
I do dismiss you to your several countries.
Then give my tongue like leave to love my head.
carry them:
Why stand'st thou still, and go'st not to the duke?
And fitter is my study and my books
But now nor Lucius nor Lavinia lives
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
By putting on the destined livery.
And overlook their grafters?
If what in rest you have in right you hold,
There stands the castle, by yon tuft of trees,
So that the ram that batters down the wall,
Can we outrun the heavens? good Margaret, stay.
language you will: though you understand it not
The worst that man can breathe, and make his wrongs
The Moor is of a free and open nature,
Is not by much so wholesome-profitable
SCENE II. A room in LEONATO'S house
The viol once more: how thou stirr'st, thou block!
To take the indisposed and sickly fit
casual, a cunning thief, or a that way accomplished
We come to speak with him. Ulysses, enter you.
I remember
SCENE I. London. A street.
And yet I'll promise thee she shall be rich
We sucking on her natural bosom find,
The children must
I'll have thy beauty scratch'd with briers, and made
The willing'st sin I ever yet committed
garments, how you disgraced her, when you should
Love doth to her eyes repair,
Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deeds
Will cause Demetrius to awake.
All the power this charm doth owe.
Re-enter PANDARUS
Or modest Dian circled with her nymphs,
The plain-song cuckoo gray,
The sun is high, and we outwear the day.
Which he shall have: I'll pay the debt,
To-day how many would have given their honours
Exeunt
Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter
These are the ushers of Marcius: before him he
Nay, how will you do for a husband?
You wisest Grecians, pardon me this brag,
Exeunt. Flourish
He would not take it. Never did I know
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
But what was true and very full of proof.
duke: you know the character, I doubt not, and the
What would you have?
Thou'st made me cuckold.
Did never meddle with my thoughts.
For our case is as theirs.
That grudge one thought against your majesty!
Come on, then, wear the favours most in sight.
Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty,
O sweet Portia,
Those eyes of thine from mine have drawn salt tears,
Thy grief is but thy absence for a time.
there's some boot.
I cannot, by the progress of the stars,
Sail seas in cockles, have an wish but for't,
But it was famed with more than with one man?
Till Suffolk gave two dukedoms for his daughter.
From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony,
A thousand thousand!
Let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong,
I never hated thee: I have seen thee fight,
With downright payment, show'd unto my father.
The lustre in your eye, heaven in your cheek,
A joyless, dismal, black, and sorrowful issue:
That very time I saw, but thou couldst not,
wakes, fairs and bear-baitings.
That villain Hubert told me he did live.
Stabbing him
The value of her own: 'twere a concealment
Peace, good pint-pot, peace, good tickle-brain.
His rage can do on me: you must be gone,
So long as hell and Richard likes of it.
My children too?
Enter two Senators and Tribunes
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
Her heart weighs sadly: this young maid might do her
Shall more attend upon the coming space,
Without a monument!--bring thee all this,
O, that the gods
I prithee, Lucio, do me this kind service:
Despairing died.
lost his A B C, to weep, like a young wench that had
I'll sort some other time to visit you.
I have done. Come, you promised me a tawdry-lace
death's-bed--Got deliver to a joyful resurrections!
Upon a lazy bed the livelong day
ANNE's train.
Great griefs, I see, medicine the less, for Cloten
ACT I
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
I conjure thee but slowly, run more fast.
He should, for that, commit your godfathers:
See that he be convey'd unto the Tower:
Go, Mistress Ford,
Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright
I'ld say I had eyes again!
of your daughter, who is now queen.
The cygnet's down is harsh and spirit of sense
Nay, good goose, bite not.
What, are you both pleased?
Exit
Mistress Anne Page: and the letter is, to desire
I would the state of time had first been whole
Hang her, witch!
And linger not our sure destructions on!
Although thy husband may be Menelaus,
Look with a gentle eye upon this wretch!
No more, no more.
Is to exchange one misery with another,
Then, tell me, what doth he upon the sea?
Proof enough to misuse the prince, to vex Claudio,
from you: how had you been my friends else? why
and all the madness is, he cheers them up too.
Madame, came nothing else along with that?
'Deliver Helen, and all damage else--
That it may stand till the perpetual doom,
The bidding of the fullest man, and worthiest
Let her alone: speak not of Helena,
We'll set thy statue in some holy place,
Nor none that live, I hope.
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
To render up the great seal presently
There's language in her eye, her cheek, her lip,
to waste: about it.
But be he as he will, yet once ere night
Resolved for flight. Now were I happy, if
I mean, in perjured witness, than your master,
Pray, good shepherd, what fair swain is this
her own nest.
Mine eyes are cloy'd with view of tyranny:
What things again most dear in the esteem
Be not dismay'd, for succor is at hand:
O,--Desdemona,--
O, let me teach you how to knit again
you and desire you, to con them by to-morrow night,
He--to give fear to use and liberty,
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
And if he be not fought withal, my lord,
And, good my Lord of Somerset, unite
Good night, my lord.
Search Windsor Castle, elves, within and out:
At blow and thrust, even as again they were
Now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide,
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
The spring is near when green geese are a-breeding.
Their perch and not their terror.
Enter KENT and a Gentleman
Enter PISANIO
The cause betwixt her and this great offender.
So much by weight hate I her Diomed:
that they cannot at ease on the old bench? O, their
Requite your love!
And for alliance sake, declare the cause
So he that doth redeem her thence might wear
parrots. Go in, sirrah, bid them prepare for dinner.
The safer sense will ne'er accommodate
Stands not within the prospect of belief,
They converse apart
Our shows are more than will, for still we prove
Care of your food and living, and, believe it,
Persuade him that he hath been lunatic,
I'm not their father, yet who this should be,
Say you can swim, alas, 'tis but a while!
Causeless have laid disgraces on my head,
Which would be planted newly with the time,
As perfectly is ours as yours, my lord,
To see perform'd the dreaded act which thou
The statue of her mother.
strength: if you saw yourself with your eyes or
And let him sign it: we'll away to-night
ear can endure to hear. Thou hast appointed
Because a bard of Ireland told me once
It well appears: but tell me
That, on mine honour, here I do protest.
That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
And hardly understood.
That it do singe yourself: we may outrun,
terror in the youth: he will find it comes from a
Dies
I writ at random, very doubtfully.
As procurator to your excellence,
This youth, how'er distress'd, appears he hath had
Was theme for you, you were the word of war.
But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me.
With news the time's with labour, and throes forth,
What, thyself?
I were a baby still. I love you better.
turn them together. A man may be too confident: I
Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness.
Thou teachest like a fool, the way to lose him.
I once did lend my body for his wealth,
A thing inspired, and, not consulting, broke
They withdraw into the tent
Yes, if there were no other excuse why they should
Richard Plantagenet, my lord, will come:
And, for an onset, Titus, to advance
Be round impaled with a glorious crown.
And have a thousand times more cause than he
For shame, bring Juliet forth, her lord is come.
Enter a Lord
He parted frowning from me, as if ruin
And the owner of it blest
Speak freely.
To drive away the heavy thought of care?
[Aside to ISABELLA]   That's well said.
In stamps that are forbid: 'tis all as easy
My desolation does begin to make
In the south suburbs, at the Elephant,
What, my young master? O, my gentle master!
Shall I deny you? no: farewell, my lord.
Is it but thought so? what are they that think it?
I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
let me have Claudio's head sent me by five. Let
Attended on by many a lord and knight.
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced
Dost thou in conscience think,--tell me, Emilia,--
commend me to thy honourable virtuous lord, my very
What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food?
She did disdain my child, and stood between
upon Saint Tavy's day.
Your quondam wife swears still by Venus' glove:
In ivory coffers I have stuff'd my crowns,
Call here my varlet, I'll unarm again:
tell you, since I heard of the good lady's death and
To Bedlam with him! is the man grown mad?
Peace, son! and show some reason, Buckingham,
I was the chief that raised him to the crown,
Then is your cause gone too. The duke's unjust,
Ay.
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
I was so unfortunate a beggar.
And you shall find I like it: wait attendance
Then belike my children shall have no names:
Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him:
Against the word:
If any ship put out, then straight away.
Till I again see mine.
I beseech your grace to pardon me, and withal
They are as innocent as grace itself:
I'll do't, but it dislikes me.
any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
I have done the state some service, and they know't.
I have cursed them without cause.
I tell thee, fellow, there are none want eyes to
And let their heirs, God, if thy will be so.
No more do yours: your virtues, gentle master,
Be-monster not thy feature. Were't my fitness
Have I not reason to prefer mine own?
She's impudent, my lord,
Good, and valiant.
And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
Remembers not these garments, nor I know not
Yea, by mass, that it is.
commendation.
cast ashore.
So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
Richard the second here was hack'd to death,
And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep--
Edward and York, then haply she will weep:
Both as the same, or rather ours the elder,
him to execution, for discipline ought to be used.
To be seduced by thy flattery,
To make that only true we now intend,
They are his shards, and he their beetle.
All circumstances well considered.
Say,
Even by the squandering glances of the fool.
For I am much ashamed of my exchange:
In most accepted pain.
His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
he cannot, let the botcher mend him. Any thing
Ay, so the turn were served.
He loves your people
Most wonderful!
wraths, and his cholers, and his moods, and his
Enter SALISBURY, PEMBROKE, and BIGOT
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
With politic grave counsel, then the king
Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frize,
which may, without contradiction, suffer the report.
That smooth-faced gentleman, tickling Commodity,
And my heart breaks at it.
I think it freely, and betimes in the morning I will
If Marcus did not name the word of hands!
There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in
Cease, cease these jars and rest your minds in peace:
the dog all this while sheds not a tear nor speaks a
Enter LORD ROSS and LORD WILLOUGHBY
And, kinsmen, then we may go pipe for justice.
I have another weapon in this chamber,
would have it at the Lady Hero's chamber-window.
man's heart.
Ay, good my lord, for purposely therefore
Exeunt WILLIAM STAFFORD and SIR HUMPHREY, and soldiers
almost as great as his honesty, had it stretched so
When I dissuaded him from his intent,
I prithee, boy, run to the senate-house,
As mad as the vex'd sea, singing aloud,
And out of all these to restore the king,
An you should do it too terribly, you would fright
To do you rest, a thousand deaths would die.
Of him, sir.
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
O heavens, can you hear a good man groan,
'Be serviceable to my son,' quoth he,
O, take his mother's thanks, a widow's thanks,
You take the sum and substance that I have.
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.
As plates dropp'd from his pocket.
Ere I taste bread, thou art in nothing less
Thrust from the company of awful men:
I am maim'd for ever. Help, ho! murder! murder!
These pretty country folks would lie,
I am constant to my purpose, they follow the king's
small kindnesses from him, as money, plate, jewels
England, bound in with the triumphant sea
He shall be none,
From this unhallowed and blood-stained hole?
Exit
O, villain that I am!
very merry, but yet she is not well: but thanks be
Can lay on nature is a paradise
humble-mouth'd,
The man is innocent.
Why, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp.
I thank you. Let's withdraw,
O loyal father of a treacherous son!
Yet must we join with him and with the lords,
Pompey.
The Lion shakes Thisbe's mantle, and exit
I'll send her straight away: to-morrow
My lord?
And what God will, that let your king perform,
Of that quick spirit that is in Antony.
A trumpet within
Enter Second Merchant and ANGELO
So bear I thee upon my manly shoulders,
Therefore accept such kindness as I can.
Reward to him that brings the traitor in?
My lord,
Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers--
Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue,
O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books
Praised be God, and not our strength, for it!
a thousand: he had some feeling of the sport: he
Yet all goes well, yet all our joints are whole.
Yea, but a little charge will trench him here
And you, good uncle, banish all offence:
Believe me, lords, for flying at the brook,
soul, alive or dead?
To see their day and them our fortune give:
By this time, had the king permitted us,
After her, after her.
Cry mercy, lords and watchful gentlemen,
Cheque'd like a bondman, all his faults observed,
And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
To eat those little darlings whom they loved.
O thou Othello, thou wert once so good,
Please you, sir,
If that thy prosperous and artificial feat
sack: and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
Who shall stay you?
Anon, anon! I pray you, remember the porter.
This fortress built by Nature for herself
But I do prize it at my love before
SCENE II. A room in the palace.
If you would grant the time.
Sir, we have known together in Orleans.
It is a manacle of love, I'll place it
Thus to mine eyes. Now o'er the one halfworld
I stand dishonour'd, that have gone about
look you, it goes hard: one that I brought up of a
I will assay thee: so, defend thyself.
He hath whipp'd with rods, dares me to personal combat,
A world of earthly blessings to my soul,
In nature there's no blemish but the mind,
her and ill-thought on of you, gone between and
[Within]  A pox o' your throats! Who makes that
What speech, my lord?
To him you follow'st! I will pay thy graces
them thyself or take away with thee the very
And all we mourn for.
What grows of it, no matter, advise your fellows so:
Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here,
Who, with his shears and measure in his hand,
Stop there, I'll have her: she was mine, and not
crack the glass of her virginity, and make the rest malleable.
And in her train there is a gentle lady,
for you did bring me out.
You'll cry for this, minion, if I beat the door down.
stuffed tennis-balls.
treasonable abuses!
Steep'd in the colours of their trade, their daggers
But wherefore weeps Warwick, my valiant son?
We'll lead you thither.
If it be true, all vengeance comes too short
watch, therefore bear you the lantern. This is your
Whom I myself embrace, to set him free.
That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood:
As in a theatre, the eyes of men,
Never to marry with her though she would entreat:
No friend, no hope, no kindred weep for me,
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
I will not charm my tongue, I am bound to speak:
De neck, madame.
make another curtsy and say 'Father, as it please
Exeunt all but JULIET and Nurse
Your hand, my lord.
Hard fate! he might have died in war.
The storm is up, and all is on the hazard.
I am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things:
Is this Menenius?
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
Extremity of griefs would make men mad,
And now will I be Edward's champion.
That, his apparent open guilt omitted,
Meantime, God grants that we have need of you:
'Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage.
Mark'd he your music?
I'll do the service of a younger man
That what he will he does, and does so much
The tomb is opened
I rather wish you foes than hollow friends:
O monstrous!
I am.
Do not believe it. Fewness and truth, 'tis thus:
Base men by his endowments are made great.
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
As gentle tell me, of what honour was
And to repair my honour lost for him,
Not shriving-time allow'd.
Six thousand and two hundred good esquires,
that hangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind
More than the world enjoys.
Should not in this best garden of the world
Whom I would imitate: consumption catch thee!
SCENE IV. Forres. The palace.
No, no, they would not do so foul a deed,
Much more than death: do not say 'banishment.'
She twits me with my falsehood to my friend,
As my sweet Richard: yet again, methinks,
Yet I confess that often ere this day,
Money's a medler.
'Tis but the fate of place, and the rough brake
Make us partakers of a little gain,
Hath stuff'd these hollow vessels with their power,
'Sblood, my lord, they are false: nay, I'll tickle
down by lawful counsel, and straight away for
Arm, fight, and conquer, for fair England's sake!
Of that I doubt, as all men's children may.
Alas, poor Maccabaeus, how hath he been baited!
I say, my lords, he has done fair service,
To seek out sorrow that dwells every where.
Hail, Caesar! read this schedule.
world needs to fear no colours.
Nay, I must tell you, so you do, or else I could not
Serving alike in sorrow: leak'd is our bark,
Within rich Pisa walls, as any one
Be-mock the modest moon.
husband have stables enough, you'll see he shall
Ay.
For joyful mother, one that wails the name,
O, you shall be exposed, my lord, to dangers
He said he would not ransom Mortimer,
boys behind 'em, loose shot, delivered such a shower
Give me a living reason she's disloyal.
You have undone a man of fourscore three,
Exeunt KING OF FRANCE and CORDELIA
fool, and a coward, as you then reported him to be?
That wear upon your virgin branches yet
Prize you yourselves: what buys your company?
A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
But all in vain, they had no heart to fight,
Their iron indignation 'gainst your walls:
And then it was when the unhappy king,
Made Lud's town with rejoicing fires bright
pains to thank me: if it had been painful, I would
the time and outward habit of encounter, a kind of
Spoke with the king and have procured his leave
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
compound with the major part of your syllables: and
And on the wager lay two earthly women,
But I do prophesy the election lights
Sweet Proteus, no, now let us take our leave.
She weeps, and says her Henry is deposed,
Now my sworn friend and then mine enemy,
Thou shouldst have made him
My ring away. This course I fittest choose,
To chide at your extremes it not becomes me:
But that I was a journeyman to grief?
Whose children he hath slain, their base throats tear
Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick
Therefore it must with circumstance be spoken
The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet:
So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
SCENE I. Antechamber in LEONTES' palace.
I must serve him so too, tell him of an intent
As presence did present them, him in eye,
Look upon him, love him, he worships you.
But yet indeed the lesser is his daughter
by this means
I think he'll hear me. Yet, to bite his lip
Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts,
Have shown to thee such a declining day,
bowels, thou!
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
Ay, sir, to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
The story then goes false, you threw it him
Show you sweet Caesar's wounds, poor poor dumb mouths,
So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee,
The want whereof doth daily make revolt
The partner of your bed. Methinks I see
But by immortal Providence she's mine:
Y-ravished the regions round,
not take pity of her, I am a villain, if I do not
What's his name?
But an unkind self, that itself will leave,
Alas! how should you govern any kingdom,
Thinks all is writ he speken can,
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
What did you enact?
abstract for the remembrance of such places, and
Where sits deformity to mock my body,
Your most obedient counsellor, yet that dare
How shall I honour thee for this success?
Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue.
Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
Melt and no more be seen. O, come, be buried
Although the kite soar with unbloodied beak?
warning: the deputy cannot abide a whoremaster: if
Those bated that inherit but the fall
Help, masters!--Here's a goodly watch indeed!
A cell of ignorance, travelling a-bed,
And not a man of them shall have the grace,
It's fit it should be so, for princes are
Each heart in Rome does love and pity you:
That stir the king against the duke my brother.
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
Exeunt
I do beseech you, take it not amiss,
'Tis a notorious villain. Take you this weapon,
So I do, against my will.
Where several worthies make one dignity,
cannot be able to express it.
We shall be short in our provision:
Guard me, beseech ye.
Mine shall not do his Julia so much wrong.
'Murder!'
The expedition my violent love
I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower.
Ay, when my father was in Rome she did.
Consider you what services he has done for his country?
the boy never need to understand any thing, for
Of any point in't shall not only be
Exeunt some of the Servants
O, sir, we doubt it not.
That wrought upon thee so preposterously
And every hour more competitors
My sons, God knows what hath bechanced them:
thy wrongs,
That heirless it hath made my kingdom and
My lord,
Of Timon man and all humanity!
And this may help to thicken other proofs
Though I am satisfied and need no more
The parts that fortune hath bestow'd upon her,
Of great revenue, and she hath no child:
Due for a chain your husband had of him.
Enter LORD FITZWATER
Your importunacy cease till after dinner,
If that an eye may profit by a tongue,
Scatter'd by winds and high tempestuous gusts,
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
Or earth, gape open wide and eat him quick,
released and delivered over to the king her father,
He kneels down
move under the influence of the most received star,
Doth stop my cornets, were in Talbot's place!
Upon supposed fairness, often known
valour is crushed into folly, his folly sauced with
Instructed by the antiquary times,
The title is affeer'd! Fare thee well, lord:
Believe't, that we'll do any thing for gold.
On your imaginary forces work.
they come to Berwick, from whence they came.
Exeunt
Your daughter, if you have not given her leave,
Their counsel turns to passion, which before
To take thy life from thee.
I pray thee, peace: my soul is full of sorrow.
And I expressly am forbid to touch it,
As if we were God's spies: and we'll wear out,
Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
Will make but little for his benefit.
And I for comfort have but one false glass,
So are we Caesar's friends, that have abridged
Yet you began rudely. What are you? what would you?
That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonous
Resolved. resolved.
Well, my good lord.
wish him to her father.
Am yet a courtier beggarly, nor could
According to that state you shall be used.
To GONERIL
Then was I going prisoner to the Tower,
In his rage and his wrath,
Into my grave.
Out on you, owls! nothing but songs of death?
A sign of dignity, a garish flag,
do you hear me, and let this count kill me. I have
well as a man in his case may do: has here writ a
To merit bliss by making me despair:
That stays upon me, whose persuasion is
I know not which pleases me better, that my husband
Is't so, my lords of England?
But this is not the best. Look, prithee, Charmian,
If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound,
Think of this, good peers,
O, ay: stalk on. stalk on, the fowl sits. I did
Shall see this, and bless heaven.
write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, and again
Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK and Lords
No care to your best courses. Go, I pray you,
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
His legs bestrid the ocean: his rear'd arm
Or of devotion, to this holy shrine?
Then thou dwellest with daws too?
Came you from the king, my lord
Can nothing render but allegiant thanks,
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Which else would put you to your fortune and
Live each of you the subjects to his hate,
Exeunt
Of noble having and of royal hope,
Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out!
Your grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York,
I am no great Nebuchadnezzar, sir, I have not much
No money, on my faith, but the gleek,
For I must now to Oberon.
Of Dun Adramadio, Dun Adramadio.
Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters
Upon what sickness?
That in his nonage council under him,
Do outrage and displeasure to himself?
I would they were, that I might die at once,
Then why should they love Edward more than me?
And I am one that love Bianca more
That should deracinate such savagery,
Taurus!
All scholars, lawyers, courtiers, gentlemen,
And furthermore tell him, we desire to know of him,
What, would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher
A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death:
Ah, barbarous villains! hath this lovely face
Your very goodness and your company
They play
Friar, thou knowest not the duke so well as I do:
Be your tears wet? yes, 'faith. I pray, weep not:
But in the mean time he wants less, my lord.
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
Prevent it, resist it, let it not be so,
'Twere good you do so much for charity.
My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour,
If Helen then be wife to Sparta's king,
before the gods, I am not able to do,--the more
It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the
noble and true-hearted Kent banished! his
Thou canst help time to furrow me with age,
wife within a mile where my land and living lies,
SCENE II. Before LEONTES' palace.
Humbly to kiss your hand, and with my tongue
They call false caterpillars, and intend their death.
Bear him to the rock Tarpeian, and from thence
Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
Exit
Of my wife's brother, then his cheek look'd pale,
For God's sake, send some other messenger.
given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan
I was, fair madam.
Upon my wretched women, that so long
I shall, my liege.
base-string of humility. Sirrah, I am sworn brother
I do mistake my person all this while:
You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark.
Women to change their shapes than men their minds.
In mine own country, lords.
Where you and Douglas and our powers at once,
Would not have touch'd, would not have stain'd with blood:
Be my so used a guest as not an hour,
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
That he should be so abject, base and poor,
say, if he would incline to the people, there was
Loud alarum
Is nothing left me but my body's length.
Ay, so, God be wi' ye,
Have letters from me to some friends that will
Hold out this tempest. Bear away that child
Enter Constable
Toward thee forgetfulness too general, gross:
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
He had no other death's-man. Let us see:
Rivers and Hastings, take each other's hand,
Ay, my good lord, I know the gentleman
Which can interpret further: only, I say,
By each at once her chappy finger laying
Or what is now received: I witness to
What mean'st by this?
The devil himself.
Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Exit GLOUCESTER
My mind will never grant what I perceive
As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere.
I attend them with all respect and duty.
To London, all in post, and, as I guess,
DON
Vices, I would say, sir. I know this man well: he
on the death of the deer? And, to humour the
The surge most swoln that met him, his bold head
Can nothing speak? Master, shall I strike?
Inspire me, that I may this treason find!
No, God forbid your grace should be forsworn.
Marry, this is the short and the long of it, you
must be witty now. She does so blush, and fetches
As all the poisonous potions in the world
Ay.
To fast, to study, and to see no woman,
Proud and ambitious tribune, canst thou tell?
You undergo too strict a paradox,
I do believe that these applauses are
None durst come near for fear of sudden death.
Faith yes,
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
Peace be to France, if France in peace permit
Bid Gloucester think of this, and he will weep.
king Charles, and William de la Pole, Marquess of
Saw you the king to-day, my Lord of Derby?
The imaginary relish is so sweet
Or what you will command me will I do,
That e'er was heard or read!
No, boy, but as well as I can do them. Peace!
Exeunt severally, HAMLET dragging in POLONIUS
From the casque to the cushion, but commanding peace
There is means, madam:
Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
But let it rest. Now, Licio, to you:
the middle on's face?
Does an irresolute purpose.
I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.
For honour's cause, forbear your suffrages:
We turn not back the silks upon the merchant,
Is come on shore: the Moor himself at sea,
present the princess, sweet chuck, with some
Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
Continues well my lord? His health, beseech you?
Coriolanus banished!
He hath no eyes, the dust hath blinded them.
My name, my good lord, is Parolles.
Kills LAVINIA
Address yourself to entertain them sprightly,
A trembling upon Rome, such as was never
loved, no sooner loved but they sighed, no sooner
Hale him away, and let him talk no more.
Your most sweet voices: now you have left
Here in the tent.
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
A fearful battle render'd you in music:
My latter part of life.
I can go home alone.
As one that had been studied in his death
Upon these slanderers.
Go bid the priests do present sacrifice
I know't, my sister's: this approves her letter,
Silver'd in the moon's eclipse,
Let them want nothing that my house affords.
Here he comes.
washed off the next tide.
His cupbearer,--whom I from meaner form
The Apparitions vanish
Who pour their bounty on her, and her gain
I know not that, when he knows what I know.
Care for us! True, indeed! They ne'er cared for us
As if that luck, in very spite of cunning,
What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
Now, by the holy mother of our Lord,
I think, to steal cream indeed, for thy theft hath
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
I told you, sir, my daughter is disposed of.
And ye that on the sands with printless foot
to sea again. Let's be revenged on him: let's
Exit
And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,
Find you that there?
And from his holiness use all your power
ignorance were as dark as hell, and I say, there
So say I	amen.
So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling.
Of you, my gentle cousin Westmoreland,
Could have knock'd out his brains, for he had none:
with a distempered appetite. To be generous,
Shall to the edge of all extremity
Now he'll outstare the lightning. To be furious,
The nightingale, if she should sing by day,
As salt as wolves in pride, and fools as gross
I do repent me that I put it to you.
Fortune, she said, was no goddess, that had put
Gives me this instance: already he hath carried
He says, to veil full purpose.
sewed up again, and that I'll prove upon thee,
Stab poniards in our flesh till all were told,
I do, and charge you in the duke's name to obey me.
Treason has done his worst: nor steel, nor poison,
wast the properest man in Italy.
We'll lay before this town our royal bones,
Blue, my lord.
Myself to see the issue.
greater that I am subdued. Would the cook were of
How now! what news?
When earthly things made even
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
As violently as hasty powder fired
Hadst not been born than not to have pleased me better.
In hell-black night endured, would have buoy'd up,
was born to do me good: for many a time, but for a
fault I pray.
But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
Nor mine, my lord: Cressid was here but now.
I'll tell thee:
Very well: what would you?
From his ambitious finger. What had he
At her life's rate.
is, Master Page, fidelicet Master Page, and there is
If you see vengeance,--
Kissing TITUS
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
My conscience first received a tenderness,
Exit SCARUS
And, daughter, yours.
Come, sir: did you set these women on to slander
I know not whether God will have it so,
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
Her and her virtues, I cannot forget
Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised.
And in good time you gave it.
which you have not, but I pardon you for that, for
Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford's king:
Loves woman for, besides that hook of wiving,
say doubt, det, when he should pronounce debt,--d,
white herring. Croak not, black angel, I have no
And we are barren and bereft of friends,
Speak this no more.
To have't with saying 'Good morrow.'
Not enough barbarous, had not o'erboard thrown me
And often up and down my sons were toss'd,
How now, good Cassio! what's the news with you?
For shame, my liege, make them your precedent!
What?
On fair ground
Wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be
Exeunt
Sir, he dined with her there, at the Porpentine.
[Within]  Madam!
Burn, house! sink, Athens! henceforth hated be
If you did know for whom I gave the ring
To gnaw their garners. Worshipful mutiners,
Nor no man's lord, I have no name, no title,
Now, justice on the doers!
Yea, if he said my ring was copper.
This England never did, nor never shall,
What hour is it?
Entreat her fair, and, by my soul, fair Greek,
Why, so I did, but look'd for no reply.
Should not be utter'd feebly. It is held
Which was the model of that Danish seal,
Security, I'll pawn my victories, all
take my death, I never meant him any ill, nor the
It weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
Even so, an't please your worship, Brakenbury,
It could not move thus.
The chief perfections of that lovely dame
That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think
When you curse them as enemies.
By fearing to attempt. Go to Lord Angelo,
My poor corpse, where my bones shall be thrown:
Will you not push her out? Give her the bastard.
am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me,
Enter another Messenger
A stouter champion never handled sword.
for, and there is a kind of confession in your looks
Instead of gold, we'll offer up our arms:
And, as I think, they have already order
From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash
I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,
I bleed inwardly for my lord.
Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him,
Exit
Come on, I say, and first begin with her.
But if I were as wise as honest, then
Flourish. SATURNINUS courts TAMORA in dumb show
Sir, there is a fray to be fought between Sir Hugh
I will not ruinate my father's house,
Re-enter Officers, with CLEOMENES and DION
Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.
I charge thee do so, as thou art my child.
Why, that was he.
That by your virtuous means I may again
All torment, trouble, wonder and amazement
Fortune and Antony part here, even here
And spend your rich opinion for the name
How long is't since she went to Milford-Haven?
To follow in a house where twice so many
Whoever shoots at him, I set him there,
And made the most notorious geck and gull
Enter TROILUS
My life were better ended by their hate,
Of honour'd bones indeed. What should be said?
We'll not be long away.
Burning, scalding, stench, consumption, fie,
So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece
And turns it to exile, there art thou happy:
Till he communicate his parts to others:
To say 'live, boy:' ne'er thank thy master, live:
Than music from the spheres.
Since nought so stockish, hard and full of rage,
To bury mine intents, but also to effect
Present mirth hath present laughter,
And let the angel whom thou still hast served
Thus high, by thy advice
that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
With profitable labour, to his grave:
The other eye of Gloucester.
I'll make her come, I warrant you, presently.
And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,
Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.
And oped their arms to embrace me as a friend.
Lead our first battle: worthy Macduff and we
That give heaven countless eyes to view men's acts,
A day in April never came so sweet,
Spurn at his edict and fulfil a man's?
In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
What gold is this? what Adam dost thou mean?
Be not disturb'd with my infirmity:
And in defence of my lord's worthiness,
Exit
rewards me, God reward him! If I do grow great,
Of thy former lady's eye:
And open perils surest answered.
O villain! thou hast stolen both mine office and my name.
But what it is, that is not yet known, what
Enter OSRIC
Enter VOLUMNIA
And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And will continue fast to your affection,
But this is worshipful society
SCENE I. The king of Navarre's park.
I cannot leave to love, and yet I do,
Why? For filling a bottle with a tundish. I would
Exeunt
at no man's jests, eat when I have stomach and wait
Upon that Clifford, that cruel child-killer.
Here, sir!
Exeunt FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and CAMILLO
What is that curt'sy worth? or those doves' eyes,
And give me signs of future accidents.
Let never day nor night unhallow'd pass,
Abated captives to some nation
With open outcry toward our monument.
Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown'd with snakes,
Very well! go to! I cannot go to, man, nor 'tis
Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
I never had honest man about me, I, all
Leave them as naked as the vulgar air.
You, as your business and desire shall point you,
Is crack'd, and all the precious liquor spilt,
As I saw it inclined: when was the hour
When sects and factions were newly born:
And Duke of Buckingham, now, poor Edward Bohun:
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The ghostly father now hath done
Your grace may starve perhaps before that time.
When he sees me go back one foot or fly.
The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not
Here stands a lord, and there a lady weeping,
Why should I joy in any abortive birth?
Do you see this? Look on her, look, her lips,
By the exaction of the forfeiture?
I'll tell you, Sir Lucentio: when the priest
Yes, I accept her, for she well deserves it,
To-morrow will I send.
Take't up, I say, give't to thy crone.
I hope well of to-morrow, and will lead you
Than those for preservation cased, or shame--
The man I speak of cannot in the world
cozen somebody in this city under my countenance.
In single combat thou shalt buckle with me,
No, for then we should be colliers.
Yea, and my father.
Be certain, nothing truer, 'tis no jest
Exeunt OTHELLO and DESDEMONA
garments, your lowliness, and what your highness
The moon of Rome, chaste as the icicle
Hark, boy! what noise is that?
No, my good lord, I met him back again.
And breathing to his breathless excellence
silent, and not confess so much, were a kind of
To lip a wanton in a secure couch,
No loving token to his majesty?
Provided that you weed your better judgments
Farewell, our brother.
To this supposed, or else to let him suffer,
Answer to us.
Nature's wit.
First, what is your place?
I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord:
I swear he is true--hearted, and a soul
Anjou and Maine both given unto the French!
I shall despair. There is no creature loves me,
Of woeful ages long ago betid,
ends my catechism.
Let him appear.
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it:
Enter, below, MARCUS ANDRONICUS and Tribunes, re-enter SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS, attended
To amplify too much, would make much more,
Of my whole course of love, what drugs, what charms,
than the master: if any where I have them, 'tis by
And therein reverenced for their lawful king:
Exeunt, leading off MELUN
inventory to particularise their abundance, our
Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
great revenue! heaven bless thee from a tutor, and
Stand by, or I shall gall you, Faulconbridge.
There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,
Enter ROBERT and the BASTARD
O villain! thou wilt be condemned into everlasting
How may I reverently worship thee enough?
Bell rings
Enter LADY MACBETH
And bear his courses to be ordered
In this the madman justly chargeth them.
And I'll be sworn 'tis true: travellers ne'er did
Yet bury him as a prince.
Then fare thee well: I must go buy spices for our
In whose comparison all whites are ink,
You, mistress,
raised the wall and houses too.
And still to nose the offence.
Caesar must think,
I fear, I fear,--
And, Rivers, so were you. Was not your husband
at the brow.
overcame:' for your brother and my sister no sooner
Enter ANNE PAGE, with wine, MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE, following
Here comes his majesty.
not open my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in
I'll tame you, I'll bring you in subjection.
Not unconsider'd leave your honour, nor
her belly already: tis yours.
iniquity, stealing away from his father with his
Retreat: excursions. JOAN LA PUCELLE, ALENCON, and CHARLES fly
More like a god than you. Will you deliver
A virtue that was never seen in you.
would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
And with an accent tuned in selfsame key
This is another prisoner that I saved.
backside the town.
Thou blushest, Antony, and that blood of thine
Master Lorenzo, sola, sola!
And let me the canakin clink
The legions now in Gallia sooner landed
Present our services to a fine new prince
And he, that suffer's. O, it is excellent
So in approof lives not his epitaph
Studied so long, sat in the council-house
not.
My thrice-driven bed of down: I do agnise
If either of you both love Katharina,
Enter BENVOLIO
Music
This were kindness.
A motley fool, a miserable world!
If thereon you rely. I'll take my leave.
You may, sir.
We know't, we know't.
us our sins!--Gentlemen, let's look to our business.
her.
Exeunt
Flourish. Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, her Ladies, the Train, with Eunuchs fanning her
Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength
Stabbing him
Showing a paper
tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.
I tell you what Launce, his man, told me: he loved
Lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves
So slight a valuation, should reserve
argument? Now, if these men do not die well, it
Your preparation can affront no less
Exeunt all but CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER and Legate
Of what that want might ruin.
Out of mine own, his days and times are past
Enter GRUMIO
If that young Arthur be not gone already,
Away, away, be gone.
And therefore comes it that his head is light.
Like the old tale, my lord: 'it is not so, nor
May tear a passage through the flinty ribs
Which is the god of my idolatry,
And left thee to the mercy of the law.
he?
O, she was nought, and long of her it was
he be angry indeed.
With purpose to relieve and follow them,
And sing while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep,
So the life that died with shame
You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady.
Exeunt with CAESAR's body
Amen. So fall to't:
Brother, take you my land, I'll take my chance.
I will be sure my Katharina shall be fine.
the subject! and war and lechery confound all!
Why hast thou thus adjourn'd
Sit down with us: it ill befits thy state
Farewell, my sovereign.
But nature makes that mean: so, over that art
God turn their hearts! I never sought their malice--
Your vile intent must needs seem horrible.
ACT II
Farewell, fa rewell!
Thou shalt not do't.
Is very much unto the prince and Claudio,
Exit JAQUES
Their purpose is to parle, to court and dance,
I'll tell you true. I'll call to you.
Which chance to find us: O, my lord, my lord!
The error of our eye directs our mind:
An I do not,--
Old Escanes, whom Helicanus late
Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain,
Even for that I thank you:
With old odd ends stolen out of holy writ,
Our sport shall be to take what they mistake:
Amen, amen.
Enter a Messenger
And thither bear your treasure and your goods.
My lord, break we off, we know your mind at full.
The senate hath sent about three several guests
Re-enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO
more natural.
And fiends will snatch at it. Cold, cold, my girl!
What say you to his expertness in war?
strikes him into melancholy, and then there's a
For it excels your first: or if it did not,
youth to an answer. I think oxen and wainropes
So would I,--as good a trick as ever hangman served thief.
No, nor look'd on us.
To gratify your honourable youth,
And as mine eye doth his effigies witness
That look'd upon't. Here comes the good Macduff.
As that whereof I had the government,
A deed without a name.
Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,
The fresh green lap of fair King Richard's land,
He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo,
To find thy brother Bassianus dead.
We burn daylight: here, read, read, perceive how I
But yet be true.
Mark how he trembles in his ecstasy!
Why does the drum come hither?
And make the cowards stand aloof at bay:
wish might be found in the calendar of my past
I am yours for the walk, and especially when I walk away.
Appoint a meeting with this old fat fellow,
Come, come, I know 'tis good for you.
He consul!
Which gives men stomach to digest his words
man, I am not for him: therefore, I will even take
'A re,' to Plead Hortensio's passion,
But that the people praise her for her virtues
To-morrow dinner, then?
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers,
I am glad to see you mad.
Commotions, uproars, with a general taint
Thou stool for a witch!
Opening a letter
The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst
And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
Before the tag return? whose rage doth rend
You must prepare your bosom for his knife.
I would have stay'd till I had made you merry,
And that you would have me to do?
Is he in person ready?
And soothe the devil that I warn thee from?
Than to abhor himself: even he drops down
Capering to eye her: on a trice, so please you,
Peace, fool!
Out of the way, that your converse and business
We have jaded out o' the field.
with a warrener.
So, king, go safely on to seek thy son.
Well, we leave that to the proof.
God Pardon him! I do, with all my heart,
Attended by my men: I will make bold
I will end here.
Where I did lodge last night. Do not laugh at me,
What, are you mad, that you do reason so?
And let him say to England that we send
Being so far provoked as I was in France, I would
A dead-looking man: this pernicious slave,
I know you well, sir, and you know
A gallant knight he was, his name was Blunt,
That thou hast wronged in the time o'erpast,
I must attend the duke at dinner: by two o'clock I
Yet I not doing this, the fool had borne
Out upon it, old carrion! rebels it at these years?
Trinculo, run into no further danger:
John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers,
[Aside]	O noble strain!
Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.
hither: I must employ him in a letter to my love.
Who, ne'er so tame, so cherish'd and lock'd up,
fiends have been in poor Tom at once, of lust, as
I cannot tell, I make it breed as fast:
be born under Mars.
Will stupefy and dull the sense awhile,
I'll rather kill myself.
Hadst thou in person ne'er offended me,
Where--O for pity!--we shall much disgrace
To alter favour ever is to fear:
A headless man! The garments of Posthumus!
But faithfulness and courage.
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow,
Some twenty years.
Strangely neglected? when did he regard
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
No, my lord, not I.
ACT IV
My lord, stand back, and let the coffin pass.
He, sir, that must marry this woman. Therefore, you
ACT V
From every tree lop, bark, and part o' the timber,
Did show ourselves i' the field, and to that end
Consideration, like an angel, came
Amongst the rarest of good ones,--sitting sadly,
Music still, with shouts
So vile a thing as Caesar! But, O grief,
Willing to overlook this pedigree:
for being old before thy time.
Be merry, Kate. Some water, here, what, ho!
Exit an Attendant
Varro's
My lord,
Aside
My lord? my lord?
Let it not enter in your mind of love:
E'en that you have there.
Besides, he tells me that, if peradventure
The dateless limit of thy dear exile,
Or made it not mine too? Or which of your friends
As you on him, Demetrius dote on you!
And in sad cypress let me be laid,
Well, sir.
On purpose trimm'd up for Semiramis.
Cardinal Campeius is arrived, and lately,
Most like a noble lord in love and one
And, in this resolution, I defy thee,
Falls asleep
Lead us from hence, where we may leisurely
His currish riddles sort not with this place.
She says it is a fair one.
And that she has discharged: what thou wouldst do
We will solicit heaven and move the gods
Most like,
Hang me by the neck, if horns that year miscarry.
I would I knew in what particular action to try him.
In reverend Cerimon there well appears
And peg thee in his knotty entrails till
Father, the duke hath told the truth:
[Aside]        'Twere false, if I should speak it,
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
But by ten words, my lord, it is too long,
His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
And ever and anon they made a doubt
cannot enjoy her.
Doubt it not, worthy lord.
But your reason was not substantial, why there is no
One of them you shall be.
done. Marry, I would not do such a thing for a
Where honeysuckles, ripen'd by the sun,
Of love between your daughter and himself:
If then one is, or hath, or means to be,
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
The courage of a woman, less noble mind
My sovereign lord, bestow yourself with speed:
[Reads]  'Imprimis: She can milk.'
What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!
Have you, I say, an answer of such fitness for all
Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne?
'My lady is unkind, perdy.'
boy. Now bless thyself: thou mettest with things
I fight against thee! No: I will go seek
Then, by the lawful power that I have,
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
Until four hundred one and twenty years
Doth not the crown of England prove the king?
SCENE II. A room of state in the castle.
There would have been a time for such a word.
To rank our chosen truth with such a show
Shaked like a coward.
Giving my verdict on the white rose side.
What drink'st thou oft, instead of homage sweet,
You have sworn patience.
Re-enter WARWICK and others, bearing GLOUCESTER'S body on a bed
And since Lord Helicane enjoineth us,
Enter NORFOLK at one door, at the other, BUCKINGHAM and ABERGAVENNY
Remote from all the pleasures of the world,
I am here already, sir.
The injury of tongues in courts and kingdoms
To sit with us once more, with better heed
Whither, my lord? Cesario, husband, stay.
Sits here, like beauty's child, whom nature gat
Benedick bear it, pluck off the bull's horns and set
What if it be a poison, which the friar
I beg this boon, with tears not lightly shed,
'gree you now?
conscience. The poor Transylvanian is dead, that
Because you talk of pride now,--will you not be angry?
And charged us from his soul to love each other,
This cannot anger him: 'twould anger him
Enter CADE and the rest, and strikes his staff on London-stone
Alarums. Enter MACDUFF
But is your grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?
Even so?
To whom he sends, and what's his embassy:
Made issue from the bosom of the boy,
The circumstance consider'd, good my lord,
Why do you rate my Lord of Suffolk thus?
Than be so
Enter his chamber, view his breathless corpse,
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
The leading of the vaward.
Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call thus:
I read that I profess, the Art to Love.
Omitted, all the voyage of their life
My liege, I did deny no prisoners.
O, could their master come and go as lightly,
To comfort Edward with our company.
Which if thou follow, this strict court of Venice
Spirt up so suddenly into the clouds,
Look in upon me then and speak with me,
It doth appear, for, upon these taxations,
My captain, and my emperor, let me say,
My noble lords and cousins all, good morrow.
As many, worthy lady, to yourself:
Of horsemen, that were levied for this siege!
Come, follow. Speak not for him.
I took him for the plainest harmless creature
Is left untender'd.
But say, is Warwick friends with Margaret?
Even on that altar where we swore to you
Yonder, sure, they are coming: let us now stay and see it.
Yields us kind answer.
behind-door-work: they were warmer that got this
Re-enter Provost
The Moor already changes with my poison:
Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
The patroness of heavenly harmony:
Bare-headed plodded by my foot-cloth mule
Whom ne'er the word of 'No' woman heard speak,
offered him, he put it by with the back of his hand,
The deep-revolving witty Buckingham
You must not stay here longer, your dismission
So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back!
Into a thousand oaths, and all those oaths
That you are like to Sir Vincentio.
The king hath heard them, to the which as yet
I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me.
Degenerate bastard! I'll not trouble thee.
If in his grave he rest, we'll find him there,
Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face,
Your ladyship is ignorant what it is.
Wear your eye thus, not jealous nor secure:
Than this for whom we render'd up this woe.
My stay, my guide and lantern to my feet:
Then give my charge up to Sir Nicholas Vaux,
Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye,
Come, thou monarch of the vine,
That so sweetly were forsworn,
And most forsworn, to keep what thou dost swear.
Tell me for truth the measure of his love
To gather in some debts, my son Lucentio
Second 'Prentice	Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master: fight
You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring.
I'll prat her.
sister company: the revenges we are bound to take
Seem you that you are not?
toads carbonadoed.
To whom I will retail my conquest won,
What is the matter with our cousin now?
I beseech you.
green, when it was so dark thou couldst not see thy
This apish and unmannerly approach,
And violenteth in a sense as strong
When that the general is not like the hive
Exit
Where, where, Messala, doth his body lie?
Pushes OSWALD out
And orphans for their parents timeless death--
To solemnize this day the glorious sun
'For I must bear thee to a trusty Goth,
But have been gazed on like a comet: she speaks,
Tear him for his bad verses, tear him for his bad verses.
have the letters I have sent, and repair thou to me
Which so appearing to the common eyes,
Now will I write letters to Angelo,--
Tender your own good fortune?
Shouting, and throwing up their caps
Is there none here to give the woman?
So many fathom down precipitating,
Sear'd otherwise, nay, worse--if worse--extended
What counsel give you? whither shall we fly?
Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.
For with the dark, poor thief, I'll steal away.
write God first, for God defend but God should go
Lady, a happy evening!
Upon the altar at Saint Edmundsbury,
offendress against nature. Virginity breeds mites,
All poverty was scorn'd, and pride so great,
Here, kiss the book. Though thou canst swim like a
By gar, you are de coward, de Jack dog, John ape.
What, does the cuckold scorn me?
The cognizance of her incontinency
world hath not a sweeter creature: she might lie by
I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.
Have I deserved at your highness' hands.
Doth he lay claim to thine inheritance?
Shall these enjoy our lands?  lie with our wives?
And I'll appear again.
Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
But herein mean I to enrich my pain,
To you as much, sir! I am beholding to you
No, forsooth: he hath but a little wee face, with a
Requires to live in Egypt: which not granted,
Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
Not since widow Dido's time.
York lies, he might have sent and had the horse,
He will seek there, on my word. Neither press,
My good lord, have great care
But float upon a wild and violent sea
And entertain'd 'em deeply in her heart.
Makes our hopes fair. Command our present numbers
we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
And never brandish more revengeful steel
Upon the head of valour, which indeed
Than lady, ladies, woman, from every one
Or with a base and boisterous sword enforce
He was convey'd by Richard Duke of Gloucester
Shall be my brother, be he ne'er so vile,
For kissing of their feet, yet always bending
I will owe thee an answer for that: and now forward
Thy griefs their sports, thy resolution mock'd,
The part my father meant to act upon
Exeunt
Reveal yourself to him.
That almost burst the deck.
Than this weak arm: discomfort guides my tongue
Ay, but thou canst do what I mean to ask.
As this I dream'd of?
Enter a Messenger
is two months on her way.
Honest Iago hath ta'en order for't.
calling. But here comes Boult.
And that my fortune rubs against the bias.
Revengingly enfeebles me, or could this carl,
Conserved of maidens' hearts.
Pure Dian, bless thee for thy vision! I
Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid,
And all to have the noble duke alive.
Why, what, I pray, is Margaret more than that?
Are angels vailing clouds, or roses blown.
That's the curse of Rome.
Then murders, treasons and detested sins,
shall name your highness in this form and with this
What ho! Lucetta!
You must not so far prefer her 'fore ours of Italy.
That will forsake thee and go home in peace.
Mass, thou lovedst plums well, that wouldst
A pond as deep as hell.
In thy just proof, repeals and reconciles thee.
conscience says 'No, take heed,' honest Launcelot,
I have had my labour for my travail, ill-thought on of
As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou livest!
having the world for your labour, tis a wrong in your
I did in time collect myself and thought
And my poor soldiers tell me, yet ere night
Who, Troilus? Troilus is the better man of the two.
Judge when you hear. But, soft! what nymphs are these?
And either not attempt to choose at all
That judge hath made me guardian to this boy:
For, look you, I may make the belly smile
He that rides at high speed and with his pistol
If she and I be pleased, what's that to you?
What a block art thou, that thou canst not! My
And I am witness with her that she did.
this rascal, I could brain him with his lady's fan.
One calls within 'Juliet.'
Aboard my galley I invite you all:
O, let those cities that of plenty's cup
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
Why, as you, my lord,
There is more news:
dog, a mule, a cat, a fitchew, a toad, a lizard, an
Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE bearing a torch before him
Dispatch.
Signior, no.
And straight they shall be here: sit, and attend.
Which for things true weeps things imaginary.
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed,
Since Henry Monmouth first began to reign,
Cropp'd are the flower-de-luces in your arms,
You were inspired to do those duties which
your worship shall know by this honest old man, and,
I have yielded:
With these our late-deceased emperor's sons:
And for his safety there I'll best devise.
They did not bless us with one happy word.
Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands:
Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad,
Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart
with the oaken garland.
Indeed she is.
Lurk, lurk.
Let us address to tend on Hector's heels:
Now die, die, die, die, die.
Uplift us to the view, in their thick breaths,
In your close patience.
I must not have you henceforth question me
Delay leads impotent and snail-paced beggary
Because I am so dwarfish and so low?
would suffer her poor knight surprised, without
Both of my life and office, I have labour'd,
But if I give my wife a handkerchief,--
My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your highness,
With the same 'havior that your passion bears
Caesar's ambition shall be glanced at:
No epilogue, I pray you, for your play needs no
And at her heels a huge infectious troop
should he learn our language? I will give him some
When I did first impart my love to you,
PROLOGUE
She may do more, sir, than denying that:
Farewell till soon.
You're welcome, sir, and he, for your good sake.
Thou hast a perfect thought:
Sirrah, come hither: make no more ado,
That works him strongly.
For has not the divine Apollo said,
So should the murder'd look, and so should I,
Wife, mother, child, I know not. My affairs
All sleep except ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, and ANTONIO
The actors are come hither, my lord.
there is no staff more reverend than one tipped with horn.
To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne?
God bless thee, and put meekness in thy mind,
A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get him
The choice and master spirits of this age.
You're an odd man, give even or give none.
But, stay: what news? Why comest thou in such post?
follow worse, till the worst of all follow him
To Christian intercessors. Follow not,
And thou shalt tell the process of their death.
Ill-spirited Worcester! did not we send grace,
Well, what further?
Mark'd by the destinies to be avoided,
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
Why, then she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face.
Yet there he was, and there I found this credit,
Neither the king, nor he that loves him best,
Thus speaks of him at Rome: but I will hope
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
My lady's a Cataian, we are politicians, Malvolio's
Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body?
Where is kind Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey?
Perform 't, or else we damn thee.'
Smile you my speeches, as I were a fool?
I cannot sing: I'll weep, and word it with thee,
Lady, amen.
If then thy spirit look upon us now,
O'er sixteen years and leave the growth untried
It's heaven's will:
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
Foes to my rest and my sweet sleep's disturbers
What, ho, Brabantio! Signior Brabantio, ho!
But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
Talbot, farewell, thy hour is not yet come:
But since it would not, he had none of me.
Thus would I wear them out.
Ay, in despite of all that shall withstand you.
Bear hence his body, I will help to bury it.
Endue you with the people's voice: remains
Old men and beldams in the streets
To know from whence we are.
Proceed in justice, which shall have due course,
Her welcome friendly.
Methought their souls, whose bodies Richard murder'd,
Against my brother's life.
I have not deserved it.
That he would labour my delivery.
O! we are spoiled and--yonder he is: deny him,
They were all struck for thee! naught that I am,
And if he stand on hostage for his safety,
Be you beneath the sky.
Break up the gates, I'll be your warrantize.
A peevish schoolboy, worthless of such honour,
O well-a-day, Mistress Ford! having an honest man
Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say
How can this be?
Well, see to live, I will not touch thine eye
Most gentle and most valiant Hector, welcome:
The noontide sun, call'd forth the mutinous winds,
Enter JULIET
And therefore frame your manners to the time.
With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat,
A holy prophetess new risen up,
Follow me, and receive't.
Himself would lodge where senseless they are lying!
You sin against
I do not think a braver gentleman,
The thing I shall repent. See, see, your silence,
For Fleance fled: men must not walk too late.
come to him, at the first approach you must kneel,
I have seen the dumb men throng to see him and
And that no woman has, nor never none
Come, come, have with you. Wot you what, my lord?
Well said, noble woman?
I never knew man hold vile stuff so dear.
He never would have stay'd in France so long.
Stealing so poorly.
been vicious
Am I not protector, saucy priest?
Than drink so much in one.
'My mistress, sir' quoth I, 'Hang up thy mistress!
afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an
ANTIPHOLUS
No, nor nowhere else but in your brain.
For I the ballad will repeat,
But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
Have I not made you,
Honour and plenteous safety--that you read
That to Laertes I forgot myself,
But, like in sickness, did I loathe this food,
taught her suitor,
Which honour does acknowledge, whereof the least
Lend me a fool's heart and a woman's eyes,
That she should feel the smart of this? The cardinal
Yours, yours.
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
To gratify the good Andronicus,
Come, kiss.
To curb the will of the nobility:
That time serves still.
Foreknowing that the truth will fall out so.
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours,
Being pent from liberty, as I am now,
Dashes the fire out. O, I have suffered
No.
The name of Prosper: it did bass my trespass.
When he did stand for consul, which he lost
This shameful lodging.
'Tis not her glass, but you, that flatters her,
Hath not old custom made this life more sweet
Like peasant foot-boys do they keep the walls
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
think me still no gentleman born: you were best say
Do you damn others, and let this damn you,
O, here he comes.
A burning torch that's turned upside down,
After we part from Agamemnon's tent,
Well, the gods give us joy!
me she did affect me: and I have heard herself come
Induced by potent circumstances, that
I'll venture one have-at-him.
But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again,
Now 'tis the spring, and weeds are shallow-rooted,
Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs,
My fleet hath yielded to the foe, and yonder
And gives them what he will, not what they crave.
What, Warwick, wilt thou leave the town and fight?
And even before this truce, but new before,
Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow,
The king, your father, was reputed for
wore three-pile, but now I am out of service:
Most potent, grave, and reverend signiors,
Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman?
Is not that he t hat lies upon the ground?
With feigning voice verses of feigning love,
[To POLIXENES]                  Sir, welcome:
You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
Well, nobles, well, 'tis politicly done,
Plants with goodly burthen bowing,
Beyond the river Sala, in the year
Send out more horses, skirr the country round,
To saucy doubts and fears. But Banquo's safe?
Varies again, the grisly north
To business that we love we rise betime,
not give you three-pence again.
For the intent and purpose of the law
These are the city gates, the gates of Rouen,
time this two and thirty years, God reward me for
In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make
This orient pearl. His speech sticks in my heart.
There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fight,
Wert thou the devil, and worest it on thy horn,
I' the absence of the needer.
He must be buried with his brethren.
Among the people gather up a tenth.
Yea, thrust this enterprise into my heart,
That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat
Exit
Stand close awhile, for here comes one in haste.
Aaron and thou look down into this den,
You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory
Out of a great deal of old iron I chose forth.
Was he not companion with the riotous knights
withdrawing.
Why, but you are now well enough: how came you thus
By heavens, the duke shall know how slack thou art!
While it is hot, I'll put it to the issue.
Consent upon the order of their fight,
thy fury! Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus? He
How use doth breed a habit in a man!
He has our voices, sir.
Ruminat,--and so forth. Ah, good old Mantuan! I
To SILVIUS
Your wit's too hot, it speeds too fast, 'twill tire.
I told your majesty as much before:
And by the bright track of his fiery car,
For, well I wot, thou hast thy mother's tongue.
I had thought to have held it poor: but, since my lord
Say, Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
And laid mine honour too unchary out:
time for all things.
nominate tender.
Knocking within
Exeunt all but MACBETH and LADY MACBETH
will die, if he love her not, and she will die, ere
Took it in snuff, and still he smiled and talk'd,
Exit PHILOSTRATE
In dignity, and for the liberal arts
To LADY ANNE
Messina, and one that knows the law, go to, and a
And be no more an exhaled meteor,
honour is rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow.
Enter ACHILLES and Myrmidons
By the name of most kind hostess, and shut up
What say these young ones? What say you my niece?
In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me
And now the house of York, thrust from the crown
So, on my soul, he did, for aught he knew.
This is as't should be. Let me see the county,
Both field and city ours, he never stood
may creep in here, and throw foul linen upon him, as
By your leave, sir: I am sick till I see her.
To keep me from a most unholy match,
How understand we that?
I thought that all things had been savage here,
Let us assay our plot, which, if it speed,
Our written purposes before us sent,
Your reasons are too shallow and too quick.
God be wi' you, princes all, I'll to my charge:
When Helen is defended, nor none so noble
O Fates, come, come,
You have in that forsworn the use of eyes
And He that might the vantage best have took
Who art the table wherein all my thoughts
No kin no love, no blood, no soul so near me
Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his palate
Thou fumblest, Eros, and my queen's a squire
See! Antony, that revels long o' nights,
From my lord to my lady.
And since you call'd me master for so long,
Worse than a promise-breaker.
Why speak'st not? speak, man: what's thy name?
Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.
Prithee, no more, cease, thou know'st
old fat man, a tun of man is thy companion. Why
And thou most reverend for thy stretch'd-out life
Go seek the traitor Gloucester,
Within this half-hour, hath received his sight,
finder of occasions, that has an eye can stamp and
Ever shall in safety rest.
No teeth for the present. Get thee gone: to-morrow
Patricians and plebeians, we create
Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous?
Who can be other in this royal presence?
I'll attend your lordship.
Nor I, my lord.
That is now answered.
Waste it for you, like taper-light.
Ay, Apemantus.
I came to her from Claudio, and desired her
Ay, so true love should do: it cannot speak,
Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends,
Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend
No better, if you please.
Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
I gave this unto Julia.
I cannot daub it further.
That hath a stomach, and such a one that dare
To match us in comparisons with dirt,
Well mayst thou know her by thy own proportion,
Time is a very bankrupt, and owes more than he's
With casted slough and fresh legerity.
Thou canst not come to me: I come to thee.
Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.
To-morrow then I will expect your coming,
His letters bear his mind, not I, my lord.
Well you deserve: they well deserve to have,
Hoists sails and flies.
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
your misery increase with your age! I say to you,
But send the midwife presently to me.
The heavy gait of night. Sweet friends, to bed.
Where we do reign, we will alone uphold,
I leave you to your wisdom.
I frown upon him, yet he loves me still.
Rising and cawing at the gun's report,
Thou, nature, art my goddess, to thy law
Believe not all, or, if you must believe,
By your prescription: but this top-proud fellow,
And, Launcelot, soon at supper shalt thou see
But Brutus makes mine greater than they are.
Thou fall'st a blessed martyr! Serve the king,
There stuck no plume in any English crest
Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
We shall be blest to do, if he remember
Ay, good fool.
Well, sir.
So must slender Rosalind.
By living low, where fortune cannot hurt me,
Villanous whore!
And I a heavy interim shall support
This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
But this I know, they have demean'd themselves
thing, that of the skin of an innocent lamb should
Whose honour heaven shield from soil!--even he
My tear-stain'd eyes to see her miseries.
As there is no firm reason to be render'd,
You'll nothing, madam, to my lord by me?
Sir John stands to his word, the devil shall have
I tell you all her wealth.
Cries out, I was possess'd. Then all together
unlettered, or ratherest, unconfirmed fashion, to
Good, good.
thee: the money is paid back again.
My crown I should give off? Even so I have:
Grew shameless-desperate, open'd, in despite
Who hath committed them?
With what I get, I mean, and so do they.
Exeunt
written, they appear to men like angels of light:
She's going away.
We had not been thus shamefully surprised.
For we are peremptory to dispatch
Good dawning to thee, friend: art of this house?
explication, facere, as it were, replication, or
He cannot draw his power this fourteen days.
the company thou keepest: for, Harry, now I do not
To you, preferring you before her father,
But pay me terms of honour, cold and sickly
And, by that fatherly and kindly power
Yes, one, and in this manner. He was to imagine me
And from the organ-pipe of frailty sings
Poisons more deadly than a mad dog's tooth.
Yonder he is coming, this way, Sir Hugh.
But to be still hot summer's tamings and
What but to speak of would offend again.
And, as I hear, the great commanding Warwick
There is none of my uncle's marks upon you: he
Cut my heart in sums.
I must change arms at home, and give the distaff
And yet I know not how to get the crown,
ANTIPHOLUS
The pride of Suffolk and the cardinal,
You may go to the devil's dam: your gifts are so
Pernicious blood-sucker of sleeping men!
And breathed such life with kisses in my lips,
O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
A caitiff recreant to my cousin Hereford!
This late dissension grown betwixt the peers
Is yonder the man?
What, in the midst of the street?
As he cried 'Thus let be': to as much end
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man, to which
Know thus far forth.
To what is count's man: count's master is of
O perdurable shame! let's stab ourselves.
So I do.
me! You would play upon me, you would seem to know
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
[Within]  Who's there?
Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
And never see day that the happy sees,
But is he gracious in the people's eye?
Drew to defend him when he was beset:
Before you visit him, to make inquire
For 'tis a sign of love, and love to Richard
For here we entertain a solemn peace.
Where is my gracious Lord of Canterbury?
Just as you left them, all prisoners, sir,
Exit, led out forcibly
affairs of love, it may be said of him that Cupid
Re-enter FLUELLEN, GOWER following
That cries 'Retire,' if Warwick bid him stay.
And I myself secure in grace and favour.
Here is the head of that ignoble traitor,
Alas, sir!
northerly.
You may be jogging whiles your boots are green,
Hath ta'en your part, to have so much to do
Well, whiles I am a beggar, I will rail
fashion is? how giddily a' turns about all the hot
Base tike, call'st thou me host? Now, by this hand,
Even so it was with me when I was young:
Yet, after all comparisons of truth,
How many be commanded that command!
False allegations to o'erthrow his state?
And general honour.
To pass assurance of a dower in marriage
Unless the fear of death doth make me dote,
So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up
We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates,
To shame the zeal of my petition to thee
Wilt thou not speak to me?
The secret whispers of each other's watch:
And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
By that time will our book, I think, be drawn
The ireful bastard Orleans, that drew blood
How! traitor!
matters grow to your likings.
Young Arthur's death is common in their mouths:
Walk'd crowns and crownets, realms and islands were
To invite the Trojan lords after the combat
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
That's it, I would have said the very same.
Take away these chalices. Go brew me a pottle of
Put me to some impatience: though I lose
And fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,
Let him have all the rigor of the law.
against Benedick.
Re-enter PETRUCHIO
To whom?
The quality of persons, and the time,
Let him shun castles,
When nought would be accepted but the ring,
him above, his complexion is higher than his, he
Exeunt BIONDELLO, TRANIO, and Pedant, as fast as may be
The young'st and oldest thing.
exalted respect than any one else that follows her.
In both your armies there is many a soul
Embracing him
To beg of thee, it is my more dishonour
The best of happiness,
I care not for thee, Kate: this is no world
And more a friend than e'er an enemy,
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
Durst I have done my will. O Cassius,
My good Camillo,
To show how much thou art degenerate.
So that but one heart we can make of it,
In faith,
Why, hers, in part or all, but rather, all,
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
thrift. Briefly, I do mean to make love to Ford's
His blows are well disposed: there, Ajax!
That steals the colour from Bassanio's cheek:
'Tis of some wreck.
We cannot afford you so.
resting here, accuses him of letters he had formerly
daughters before your faces: for me, I will make
That modesty may more betray our sense
Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
While they have told their money and let out
Succeed before the younger, I am king.
petticoat: and indeed the tears live in an onion
Yes, as an outlaw in a castle keeps
Shall they see us?
Of thy assault: if he shall think it fit,
To sing them too: when you do dance, I wish you
Ay, or else 'twere hard luck, being in so
Either that is thine, or else thou wert not his.
There is no other way, 'tis she must do't:
With spans and inches so diminutive
Exit Servant
Yet, if my lord will marry,--if you will, sir,
And in his company that gentleman.
Where the devil should this Romeo be?
Exeunt
Sorrow were ever razed and testy wrath
To wash this blood off from my guilty hand:
That little thought, when she set footing here,
I thank you, honest gentlemen, good night.
Be not offended, nature's miracle,
are.
And so adieu, good madam: never more
Walk into her house,
That more than all the world I did respect her.
And overheard what you shall overhear,
Why, thou full dish of fool, from Troy.
Very well, my liege.
It cannot be but thou hast murder'd him,
KENT is put in the stocks
A foolish heart, that I leave here behind.
Go to, sir, you were beaten in Italy for picking a
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Ready for his friends.
And on my face he turn'd an eye of death,
And betimes I will, to the weird sisters:
Ah, villain, thou wilt betray me, and get a thousand
Varlet, thou liest, thou liest, wicked varlet! the
Out of the powerful regions under earth,
Who does i' the wars more than his captain can
shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money.
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
Good madam, hear me.
My mistress show'd me thee and thy dog and thy bush.
good opportunities for the ork. 'Pless my soul!
To hear from me you had left Antony,
O Peter, thou hast prevailed in right!
established proclaimed edict and continent canon,
Even of yourself, lord cardinal.
His name is Barnardine.
To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false?
let me have a child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry
Ah, Gloucester, hide thee from their hateful looks,
If it be found so, some will dear abide it.
You are princes and my guests.
Fair Leda's daughter had a thousand wooers,
Why, then, three-farthing worth of silk.
You should hear reason.
O, very well, my lord: the music ended,
Exeunt, fighting
And mine to boot, be darted on thee! Thou,
I never saw till now. I knew thy grandsire,
But jealousy what might befall your travel,
There is a remedy, approved, set down,
And strike her home by force, if not by words:
Fair Lord AEneas, let me touch your hand,
All seeing heaven, what a world is this!
you and shine through you like the water in an
No, no: this shall forbid it: lie thou there.
Even with the very comment of thy soul
His only child.
What, are you merry, knights?
Of my defeatures. My decayed fair
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
catch, if he knock out either of your brains: a'
Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings,
An you give him for my sake but one loving kiss.
Nor go neither, but you'll lie like dogs and yet say
I thank you. How does Lieutenant Cassio?
Of reasonable affairs? is he not stupid
I would it had been of horse. Where shall I find
And never from this palace of dim night
Adieu, be happy!
Speak not you for him, he's a traitor. Come,
After his brother: and importuned me
Much good do it unto thy gentle heart!
And other chosen attractions, would allure,
More laud than gilt o'er-dusted.
Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt
Lucentio, gentle sir.
King Henry's issue, Richmond, comforts thee.
Let villany itself forswear't. I must
And yet thy tongue will not confess thy error.
Ha' you done?
all men's, and for a hand, and a foot, and a body,
I cannot tell, but this I am assured,
More potent than the first.
all, dies for him.
Than to repute himself a son of Rome
Enter the KING, NORTHUMBERLAND, WORCESTER, HOTSPUR, SIR WALTER BLUNT, with others
I like it well that our fair queen and mistress
Young boy, I must.
To catch my death with jaunting up and down!
I will not harbour in this town to-night:
Exit
By giving liberty unto thine eyes,
commodity of good names were to be bought. An old
Pluck out his poor old eyes, nor thy fierce sister
No, my lord,
You shall like diamonds sit about his crown.
Mesopotamia, and the shelters whither
Ever love Caesar so?
Thanks, sir.
cries out 'No more,' reconciles them to his
I fear thou art another counterfeit,
I do love nothing in the world so well as you: is
Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes
Even in the soul of sound good-fellowship,
For your broken shin.
Proceed thus rashly to the villain's death,
incharitable dog!
O, where hath our intelligence been drunk?
Fool, I say!
Pray you, where lies Sir Proteus?
Or is it Dian, habited like her,
Peace, headstrong Warwick!
This is the king's ring.
This speak I, lords, to let you understand,
Ajax is grown self-will'd, and bears his head
How deeply you at once do touch me! Imogen,
Aside
But if my frosty signs and chaps of age,
In face, in gait, in speech, he doth resemble:
Exeunt Citizens
Give him a box o' the ear and that will make 'em red again.
Had I sufficient skill to utter them,
Within there! Flaminius! Servilius!
'Tis most true:
Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
When I did name her brothers, then fresh tears
They will not answer to that epithet,
shall have two noble partners with you, the old
Will answer as a law.
To serve me well, you all should do me duty,
Unmasking
And dost thou now fall over to my fores?
order of law a furred gown to keep him warm, and
O reverend tribunes! O gentle, aged men!
Exit
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
And soberly did mount an arm-gaunt steed,
Whose house?
I have spoken better of you than you have or will to
To Coriolanus come all joy and honour!
thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time.
But then AEneas bare a living load,
[Aside]  How like a dream is this I see and hear!
For I'll refer me to all things of sense,
The heir of his reward,
SONG
And, with a feeble gripe, says 'Dear my lord,
Cousin, there's fall'n between him and my lord
But accidents unpurposed. Draw, and come.
And never ask'd for restitution.
[To OLIVIA]  So comes it, lady, you have been mistook:
and a heaven to throne in.
If this foul deed were by to equal it:
out of the house.
born under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral
thee thine own goodness hath made, better not to
To have found a safe redress, but now grow fearful,
But after many ceremonies done,
to be constant in any undertaking. There is scarce
This was a merry message.
Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet
I suffer for the truth, sir, for true it is, I was
And if you crown him, let me prophesy:
That thought he could do more, a very little
I will be bitter with him and passing short.
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
How come these staggers on me?
they'll stick where they are thrown.
The slavish motive of recanting fear,
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily,
To Henry's body, and supply his place,
That present medicine must be minister'd,
By'r lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.
Nod--Ay--why, that's noddy.
broke bread: we had an hour's talk of that wart. I
We scorn her most when most she offers blows.
And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
Hence, sirs, away!
I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve.
Which if we should deny, the most just gods
Ay, so please your majesty. The Duke of Exeter has
Dead, if you will, but not to be his wife,
So speaking as I think, I die, I die.
York set him on to fight and die in shame,
A rotten carcass of a boat, not rigg'd,
No, my good lord,
But if there be not in our Grecian host
Persever not, but hear me, mighty kings.
And here am I, and wode within this wood,
Hold, hold, hold, hold!
And talk so like a waiting-gentlewoman
And with a low submissive reverence
Should now eat up her own!
Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
And therefore haste I to the parliament,
So, traitor! 'When she comes!' When is she thence?
So great an object: can this cockpit hold
Why should calamity be full of words?
We know each other well.
Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad.
mother: every Jack-slave hath his bellyful of
Have in thy reverence made!
Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears,
I'll broach the tadpole on my rapier's point:
I dare not, dear,--
I would have been much more a fresher man,
He is a noble Roman and well given.
Set Caliban and his companions free,
Follow me.
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven,
And I have heard it said, unbidden guests
they belie her. Lie with her! that's fulsome.
Now Hercules be thy speed, young man!
Ay, do, persever, counterfeit sad looks,
In spite of pope or dignities of church,
At our quaint spirits. Sing me now asleep,
Didst thou at first, to flatter us withal,
The want is but to put those powers in motion
Desired my Cressid in right great exchange,
Sackerson loose twenty times, and have taken him by
I'll have my bond, and therefore speak no more.
My master's.
They vanish'd strangely.
this very instant disaster of his setting i' the
Her doors lock'd?
Why, very well, then, I hope here be truths.
Musings into my mind, with thousand doubts
A hot friend cooling: ever note, Lucilius,
Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace
And have our bodies slaughtered by thy foes.
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
His dove will prove, his gold will hold,
Pretty and full of view, yea, haply, near
His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement,
Of all encertainties himself commended,
Have no delight to pass away the time,
How, how, Lychorida!
Yet are the king's, and, till my soul forsake,
Peruse this letter! Nothing almost sees miracles
Chide me no more. I'll mountebank their loves,
And call thy husband hither.
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
And at the deanery, where a priest attends,
I'll point you where you shall have such receiving
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
furnished. They were young and handsome, and of the
Dauphin, I am by birth a shepherd's daughter,
With painted imagery had said at once
standing-tuck,--
What say you, master?
And let heaven
Young scamels from the rock. Wilt thou go with me?
No.
Play something like the murder of my father
forward to-night.
never any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams
Attend his further pleasure.
Thy head, all indirectly, gave direction:
Genitive,--horum, harum, horum.
Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
[To TAMORA]  Now, madam, are you prisoner to
Either for such men or such business.
Touching thy spiritual function, not thy life.
That, with this little arm and this good sword,
Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,
I do dine to-day at the father's of a certain pupil
You'd be so lean, that blasts of January
Nay, sure, he's not in hell: he's in Arthur's
That ever kept with men.
He shall be satisfied, and, by my honour,
Exit Provost
weeks old as yet?
Wilt thou revenge?
Re-enter PUCK
Good, very good, it is so then: good, very good,
Two or three groan: it is a heavy night:
one that no persuasion can do good upon.
As to o'er-walk a current roaring loud
You, sir, what trade are you?
Must wear the print of his remembrance out,
So much for that. The silent hours steal on,
marry, marry a fool, for wise men know well enough
Is but a substance that must yield to you,
A life's but a span,
She takes the staff in her mouth, and guides it with her stumps, and writes
Enter PERICLES, on shipboard
When I was last in Holborn,
Then with Scotland first begin:'
To stop the air would hurt them. The blind mole casts
SCENE V. The same. A hall in Aufidius's house.
I would with such perfection govern, sir,
My father and my grandfather were kings,
Look to your house, your daughter and your bags!
killed him. Why may not he rise as well as I?
We must awake endavour for defence,
An alarum. Enter TALBOT in an excursion
And, would you represent our queen aright,
Thy honour, state and seat is due to me.
I'll show thee the best springs, I'll pluck thee berries,
Thou darest not this and that to prove more fortunes
sharp sauce.
Have left their places vacant, in their rooms
O, that a lady, of one man refused.
Stand not amazed: the prince will doom thee death,
Exit DENNY
And the most noble mother of the world
SCENE II. Hall in Capulet's house.
There is no tongue that moves, none, none i' the world,
Being vex'd a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears:
Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.
Stand in bold cure.
And never after to inherit it.
Given Hydra here to choose an officer,
yourself, for what is yours to bestow is not yours
That shall first spring and be most delicate.
Case ye, case ye, on with your vizards: there 's
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
No vast obscurity or misty vale,
Thou must be patient, we came crying hither:
And your reports have set the murder on.
An ancient angel coming down the hill,
Or but allay, the fire of passion.
And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
You see him there, do you?
Too much hair there, but in a semicircle
The warrants for yourself, take heed to't.
The one part suffer'd, the other will I do.
Were not my doors lock'd up and I shut out?
gentlemen.
And placed a quire of such enticing birds,
Am come to crave thy just and lawful aid,
And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more,
Madam, he sends your ladyship this ring.
mind it was: this is called the Retort Courteous.
Be what they will, I heartily forgive 'em:
So true, so just, and now so comfortable?
Do swarm upon him--from the western isles
His love and wisdom,
Here they shoot. SALISBURY and GARGRAVE fall
Sinfully pluck'd, and not a man of you
As I would do the gods. But, O thou tyrant!
Faith, none, but Humphrey Hour, that call'd
Yonder, sir, he walks.
And thou shalt bear it: wilt thou, Silvius?
Enter a third Gentleman
For shame, 'oman.
expostulate with her, lest her body and beauty
Therefore let's follow.
Within my tent his bones to-night shall lie,
herald's coat without sleeves, and the shirt, to say
Stand fast, and wear a castle on thy head!
Hark you! they come this way.
Now, God help thee, poor monkey!
every day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me: I
This was a venture, sir, that Jacob served for,
Play on the lute, beholding the towns burn:
Married in league, coupled and linked together
Such war of white and red within her cheeks!
Many and hearty thankings to you both.
state, shepherd.
I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st:
Stay not for the love of Edward, but the crown.
Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels,
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.
Stanley did dream the boar did raze his helm,
Makes a pass through the arras
And gracious be the issue!
A noise within
company. Is that the meaning of 'accost'?
We came to visit you, and purpose now
Or on Diana's altar to protest
Take not her part, for, if thou dost intend
sacrifice: where air comes out, air comes in:
By the time I linger here
Jack Cade! Jack Cade!
That blind priest, like the eldest son of fortune,
cried 'Have patience, good people!'
Immortal gods, I crave no pelf,
rapier, as I may, in fair terms: if you would walk
Exit an Attendant
Some men are much to blame.
I am for France.
All cause unborn, could never be the motive
sport anon: follow me, gentlemen.
Against whom comest thou? and what's thy quarrel?
Exit
To send their smiles before them to Achilles,
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
To sort some gentlemen well skill'd in music.
That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward.
desire is boundless and the act a slave to limit.
By us perform'd before. Most dearly welcome!
Bid them wash their faces
That fears him much, and my misgiving still
And make and mar
Away! thou'rt a knave.
What monster's her accuser? Leonatus,
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Be not afraid that I your hand should take,
virginity murders itself and should be buried in
What a plague means my niece, to take the death of
For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by.
And come yourselves, and bring Messala with you
and sepulchre. Hob, nob, is his word, give't or take't.
And now falls on her bed, and then starts up,
O, ay, make up that: he is now at a cold scent.
Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee,--
And bid her steal into the pleached bower,
That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury:
Of lineaments, of manners and of spirit,
with divines, and have all charitable preparation.
Virtue! a fig! 'tis in ourselves that we are thus
But that I am as well begot, my liege,--
Well, that fault may be mended with a breakfast. Read on.
sight of him.
Do I shrink up.
I think 'tis no unwelcome news to you.
Good sir, whose powers are these?
So were there a patch set on learning, to see him in a school:
Love you my son?
In purity of manhood stand upright,
You keep a constant temper.
In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me:
Without me, as within me, not imagined, felt.
and I came no sooner into the dining-chamber but he
Do use to chant it: it is silly sooth,
out the villain Gloucester.
ACT I
take it for your pains.
That I may pour my spirits in thine ear,
To fierce and bloody inclination.
If I my lord, for my opinion bleed,
For you, mistress,
Alas, good lady!
Hal, if thou see me down in the battle and bestride
Is this Achilles?
The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the
Break up their drowsy grave and newly move,
Kent, sir, the banish'd Kent, who in disguise
Lest he should help his father.
Scorning whate'er you can afflict me with.
I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away,
Well thought upon, I have it here about me.
Rich only in large hurts. All those for this?
She is dead, belike?
The fresh streams ran by her, and murmur'd her moans,
If he arise, be mock'd and wonder'd at.
Ay, my continent of beauty.
Poor Tom, that eats the swimming frog, the toad,
Prithee, get thee in: would thou hadst ne'er been
Who hath not seen them, even with those wings
'Tis time must do. Beseech your majesty,
And so farewell and thrive.
Well, somewhat we must do. Come, cousin, I'll
And with what imitation you can borrow
Enter Prince, attended, MONTAGUE, CAPULET, their Wives, and others
For I perceive I am thy prisoner.
Lord! when 'twas a little prating thing:--O, there
Such it seems
I would have her learn, my fair cousin, how
In me defunct--and proper satisfaction.
Being distress'd, was by that wretch betray'd,
I should have chid you for not bringing it,
It stops me here, it is too much of joy:
i' the morn, I'll call you at your house: give
Tucket
The trumpet sounds: be mask'd, the maskers come.
To outlook conquest and to win renown
examine the wars of Pompey the Great, you shall
Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
Will this hold, think you?
Be rough and razorable, she that--from whom?
It is the purpose that makes strong the vow,
Enter another Messenger
While I shall have my life. Come, reverend fathers,
To change true rules for old inventions.
Cried fame and honour on him. What's the matter?
If a hart do lack a hind,
Immediately we do exile him hence:
struck him down, the disdain and shame whereof hath
And if I die, no soul shall pity me:
What countryman, I pray?
whips the dogs: 'Friend,' quoth I, 'you mean to whip
The tedious minutes I with her have spent.
from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run
To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar.
Nay, mark how Lewis stamps, as he were nettled:
Often have you heard that told:
Peace, I say, Gallia and Gaul, French and Welsh,
He used as creatures of another place
Wherein you would have sold your king to slaughter,
will make them acquainted with your purpose, and I
That, from your first of difference and decay,
for powder, they'll fill a pit as well as better:
To any well-deserving friend,
they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign.
For Hecuba!
And therefore here I mean to take my leave.
Lend me an arm, the rest have worn me out
Why, art thou mad, old fellow?
I do beseech thee--
What cannot be preserved when fortune takes
To Salisbury, the rest march on with me.
Be this sweet Helen's knell, and now forget her.
To make the service greater than the god
Being entreated to it by your friend.
A moiety of that mass of moan to come.
O, how we joy to see your wit restored!
Or as one nail by strength drives out another,
Be lion-mettled, proud, and take no care
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse and DROMIO of Syracuse
I'll not meddle with it: it is a dangerous thing: it
voices that I may be consul, I have here the
And Nero will be tainted with remorse,
Enter CASSIO
Have often shamed our sex.
be a follower, but now you are a leader. Whether
Exeunt
A married man! that's most intolerable.
Shall on them settle. You know your places well,
Of pity, not revenge!
I'll take it as a peril to my soul,
Well said, master, mum! and gaze your fill.
Is't not the tenor of his oracle,
I have business to my lord, dear queen. My lord,
Exeunt
Whose wisdom hath her fortune conquered:
from Master Slender.
having been supple and courteous to the people,
finding him, and relish it with good observance.
I have retired me to a wasteful cock,
Most like a gentleman.
Bad news, my lord: Ely is fled to Richmond,
It wears, sir, as it grows.
three neat-herds, three swine-herds, that have made
Came you from Padua, from Bellario?
and send her home again without a husband.
Go to, have your lath glued within your sheath
If I in thought felt not her very sorrow!
Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs,
What, hath the firmament more suns than one?
Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match
And haste her to the purpose.
How is it with you, lady?
Enter AJAX
For Richard, in the view of many lords,
To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.
But such is the infection of the time,
Enter an AEdile
Of hinds and peasants, rude and merciless:
lads, I am glad you have the money. Hostess, clap
'Gainst us, our lives, our children, and our heirs.
And wring the awful sceptre from his fist,
And so I say, I'll cut the causes off,
There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer.
But what o' that? Go, you that banish'd him,
Set 't down, let's look upon't.
Your hearts I'll stamp out with my horse's heels,
Are penitent for your default to-day.
When this advice is free I give and honest,
For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure,
Exit
soldiers and my young lady!
You love my son, invention is ashamed,
Each one demand an answer to his part
To be more fresh, reviving. She is fool'd
Her hair is auburn, mine is perfect yellow:
As banks of Libya,--though, Apollo knows,
Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms,
'scape hanging for killing that rogue. I have
cheese will do 't. There's my gauntlet, I'll prove
If not, 'tis true this parting was well made.
So to him we leave it.
and will not--
Upon my body with their hellish charms?
All corners of the world: kings, queens and states,
Be of good cheer, youth: you a man! you lack a
Time was, I did him a desired office,
Let me be used with honour: strew me over
Peep through each part of him: whence has he that,
Where did you leave him?
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
But, if you frown upon this proffer'd peace,
My grieved ear withal, whereon, I begg'd
aucun prisonnier, neanmoins, pour les ecus que vous
a pair of strange ones.
France,--I cannot tell vat is baiser en Anglish.
Stop, stop! No help?
Exeunt all but EXETER
Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,
Rather to show a noble grace to both parts
Come, Casca, you and I will yet ere day
must we all march?
The son and heir of old Tiberio.
Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis.'
And therefore, since I cannot prove a lover,
Most rich in Timon's nod.
The grey-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night,
Throwing restraint upon us, or say they strike us,
had the maidenliest star in the firmament
Stand you auspicious!
'Tis true:--nay, keep the ring--'tis true: I am sure
If for my love, as there is no such cause,
With those five talents.
The ample proposition that hope makes
Wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war,
And he shall buy my daughter, and her presence
Mistress Page, divulge Page himself for a secure and
Take heed the queen come not within his sight,
Ask God for temperance, that's the appliance only
Men's natures wrangle with inferior things,
And pity to the general wrong of Rome--
Here come our wives, and let us take our leave.
This world had air'd them: hence I took a thought,
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
'Tis not well mended so, it is but botch'd,
I am sworn,
And all of you clapp'd up together in
Ay, but he's dead: off with the traitor's head,
I have a wife, whom, I protest, I love:
Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at my
O villain, thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years
I am to blame to be thus waited for.
what news?
Sir, my circumstances,
The fresh-brook muscles, wither'd roots and husks
I am soldier to, and will abide it with
his to her: it was a violent commencement, and thou
Lord cardinal,
must know of me then, Antonio, my name is Sebastian,
Touch not the boy, he is of royal blood.
Stand thee close, then, under this pent-house, for
Than any thou canst conjure up to-day,
Your honour has through Ephesus pour'd forth
Told him my pilgrimage: but his flaw'd heart,
The very way to catch them.
The hard and soft seem all affined and kin:
can you tell?
Let his shames quickly
Christian and heathen, must be be-lee'd and calm'd
And thou shalt be the third if this sword hold.
Begone, I say,
She thinks not so, peruse this writing else.
Ere you can take due orders for a priest:
So then two bosoms and a single troth.
cannot get, he may lawfully deal for--his wife's soul.
My father as he slept, I had done't.
As swift as lead, sir.
and the right wife, otherwise 'tis light, and not
Is like a good thing, being often read,
Have been deceived, they swore you did.
Because she brought stone jugs and no seal'd quarts:
lieve be a condemned man.
His marks of merit, wounds received for's country.
love me for this, take me: if not, to say to thee
Unless Bellario, a learned doctor,
Exit Servant
Have you heard of no likely wars toward, 'twixt the
Lucius the Roman, comes to Milford-Haven
Now tell me, brother Clarence, what think you
Stand back, thou manifest conspirator,
I can no longer hold me patient.
And all the ruins of distressful times
harm, and the greatest of my pride is to see my ewes
do, his fears, out of doubt, be of the same relish
Nor never seek prevention of thy foes.
To follow me and praise my eyes and face?
He smiles, and says his Edward is install'd,
My absence doth neglect no great designs,
Calls my lord?
Exeunt CAMBRIDGE, SCROOP and GREY, guarded
Did I but speak thy deeds. What committed!
speak no more. Away with those giglots too, and
Peace, master marquess, you are malapert:
The common muck of the world: he covets less
And, Will you, nill you, I will marry you.
ancient, this is my right hand, and this is my left:
For what, alas, can these my single arms?
They hang their heads
What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
As you would to your friend.
I will debate this matter at more leisure
Should become kings of Naples? O, rejoice
And he shall surety me. But for this lord,
For they must all be mask'd and vizarded,
Bid Nestor bring me spices, ink and paper,
The fool no knave, perdy.
forked animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings!
make merry withal?
You know me dutiful, therefore, dear sir,
I better brook than flourishing peopled towns:
High on a stage be placed to the view,
gold a counterfeit: thou art essentially mad,
Was call'd Sicilius, who did join his honour
Keepers, convey him hence, and I myself
O yes, an 'twere a cloud in autumn.
No, I'll give thee thy due, thou hast paid all there.
And thou be thrust out like a fugitive?
By my so potent art. But this rough magic
You are too blunt: go to it orderly.
No heart among you? or had you tongues to cry
What time o' day is't, Apemantus?
Yet if my name were liable to fear,
Nay, come, agree whose hand shall go along,
There is no world without Verona walls,
Thou art too brief: I will the second time,
Do overpeer the petty traffickers,
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
To hold my very course. Prepare for dinner.
This might have been prevented and made whole
Why, then will I tell thee--that thy master stays
Nay, but I know who loves him.
And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.
Ere three days pass, which hath as long loved me
Why, what's the matter?
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers,
'hereafter' the kneading, the making of the cake, the
So shall you bind me to your highness' service.
And if I have a co nscience, let it sink me,
Until the elder sister first be wed:
I'll wait upon you, and I long to hear it.
abate her nothing, though I profess myself her
Between the child and parent.
Not Hermia but Helena I love:
My reverend father, let it not be so!
heating of the oven and the baking, nay, you must
I look down towards his feet, but that's a fable.
LEONINE runs away
And through Wall's chink, poor souls, they are content
I do, Mark Antony.
The heavens have thought well on thee Lafeu,
Why, hear you, my masters: was it for me to kill the
Sir John Falstaff, serve Got, and leave your
That Christendom gives out.
Forethought by heaven!
When I was crown'd I was but nine months old.
And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.
charity, whom the foul fiend vexes: there could I
SCENE II. The coast of Wales. A castle in view.
The pale moon shines by night:
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks,
My Lord of Gloucester, now ye grow too hot:
After your dire-lamenting elegies,
I promised your presence and the chain,
Enter Old GOBBO, with a basket
The senators of Rome are this good belly,
Tu-who, a merry note,
Brief, then, and what's the news?
TIMON comes from his cave
Quoniam he seemeth in minority,
These present wars shall find I love my country,
And for because the world is populous
You shall not be my judge: for it is you
he's a cat to me.
As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.
vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
That we may wander o'er this bloody field
Come, tie his body to my horse's tail,
Exit CASSANDRA
that shake me thus. Pish! Noses, ears, and lips.
Exeunt all but MACBETH, and an attendant
into my note.
He would not then have touch'd them for his life!
Even till unfenced desolation
Thou art not holy to belie me so,
Bring them to our embracement. Still, 'tis strange
She is a virtuous and a reverend lady:
Yet now farewell, and farewell life with thee!
Thou know'st how willingly I would effect
Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire,
Who's there?
Can woman me unto't: where is my son, I pray you?
He throws upon the gross world's baser slaves:
SCENE IV. A room in DOCTOR CAIUS' house.
No, heaven so speed me in my time to come!
A rashness that I ever yet have shunn'd,
O, how this mother swells up toward my heart!
How that the guilty kindred of the queen
I will chop her into messes: cuckold me!
That he shall render every glory up,
From the fix'd place, drew from heart all love,
The better.
than my noble and natural person together with the
Why, such is love's transgression.
And buried one and twenty valiant sons,
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
For ever, and for ever, farewell, Brutus!
me, yet have I the benefit of my senses as well as
But 'twould offend him, and in his offence
The gifts she looks from me are pack'd and lock'd
Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
Am I made?
thou, Hermione, contrary to the faith and allegiance
His valour, coin and people, in the wars?
Thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud
With contemplation and devout desires.
My own knee! when I was about thy years, Hal, I was
And if Jove stray, who dares say Jove doth ill?
And that, my lord, I shall be loath to do:
That carries no impression like the dam.
But it reserved some quantity of choice,
And free access and favour as the rest:
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,
Not till you have slept, I fear me you'll be in till then.
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
Exit Steward
Falls on ROMEO's body, and dies
As that is desperate which we would prevent.
That you did nothing purpose 'gainst the state,
Not well.
Call forth Bagot.
Had lived to put on this: so had you saved
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Do, I prithee, but yet have the grace to consider
We shall be joyful of thy company.
Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass,
It is not very strange, for mine uncle is king of
To hang thee on, or wouldst thou drown thyself,
And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
Why stand these royal fronts amazed thus?
Ready.
Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,
Not to be shaked, the agent for his master
I train'd thy brethren to that guileful hole
of boots that have been candle-cases, one buckled,
Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
Till now I never knew thee!
The tenth of August last this dreadful lord,
I am weary of you.
Will creep in service where it cannot go.
Singing
Would without lapsing suffer: nay, sometimes,
I took by the throat the circumcised dog,
Enter GLOUCESTER
little nearer this ways:--I myself dwell with master
ourselves we publish them.
Exeunt all except HENRY, KATHARINE, and ALICE
Which not to cut would show thee but a fool,
Call'd Marina
By Roderigo and fellows that are scaped:
and a head-stall of sheeps leather which, being
See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
Then honour be but a goal to my will,
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
As thou dost, Antony, he hears no music,
We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack,
Which he in this adventure hath surprised,
Stand more for number than for accompt.
was skilful enough to have lived still, if knowledge
Once more, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.
What would she find? Lavinia, shall I read?
Truly, I have him: but I would not be the party
And when came you to serve our Roman captive?
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
Not unaccompanied invest him only,
Casting their savageness aside have done
He must have some attendants. Though his humour
In spite of spite, alone upholds the day.
Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death,
care not who knows so much of my mettle.
Which serves it in the office of a wall,
An aged interpreter, though young in days:
The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on,
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
In place of Lord Bassanio and myself.
constantly, but a time-pleaser, an affectioned ass,
worship's name.
I mean that her beauty is exquisite, but her favour infinite.
Hath willingly departed with a part,
The villany of our fears.
imposition depending on the caskets.
Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption
I have done my duty.
O, I do not like that paying back, 'tis a double labour.
Monmouth caps, which, your majesty know, to this
His passion is so ripe, it needs must break.
Thank you.
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently,
Dare ye come forth and meet us in the field?
Brutus, my country's friend, know me for Brutus!
I was compell'd to her, but I love thee
Of my poor babe, according to thine oath,
When every goose is cackling, would be thought
'I have, upon especial cause,
Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia,
What's his will else?
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
Great Timon, noble, worthy, royal Timon!
In deputation left behind him here,
Am I to put our Cassio in some action
Good night to every one.
She should this Angelo have married, was affianced
If I speak true! if hollowly, invert
To sunder his that was thine enemy?
I would into thy bosom pour my thoughts:
Why, this would make a man a man of salt,
How light and portable my pain seems now,
Name not religion, for thou lovest the flesh,
Till Henry be more weak and I more strong,--
He'll lead me, then, in triumph?
think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb.
Here's goodly gear!
Candied with ice, caudle thy morning taste,
So are those crisped snaky golden locks
pass. An chud ha' bin zwaggered out of my life,
And, even in thy behalf, I'll thank myself
But take the High'st to witness: then, pray you, tell me,
Amongst your cloven army.
Quick, quick, fear nothing, I'll be at thy elbow:
I never long'd to hear a word till now,
That either makes me or fordoes me quite.
but if he had not been in drink, he would have
What handkerchief?
And he may well in fretting spend his gall,
Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more,
What know believe, and what I can redress,
the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never
Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
Hath kept with thy remembrance.
The which you promised I should possess.
Lay't so to his charge:
keep thy word justly, swear not, commit not with
Now am I like that proud insulting ship
I am not of that feather to shake off
Have patience, I beseech.
She will be sick else. This day, no man think
Will fashion the event in better shape
People of Rome, and people's tribunes here,
Things of like value differing in the owners
Remember, as thou read'st, thy promise pass'd:
Enter Jessica
There may as well be amity and life
Comes to the privy coffer of the state,
That, being a stranger in this city here,
the fleet: I would he had boarded me.
Here comes the Duke of York.
Medea gather'd the enchanted herbs
Sir, if you'ld save your life, fly to your house:
forty thousand fathom above water, and sung this
Goes foremost in report through Italy.
Your mistress bears well.
What may be wrought out of their discontent,
Who, finger'd to make man his lawful music,
It should be challenged.
Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa, love
There's not a one of them but in his house
And nothing of your answer.
That when they hear the Roman horses neigh,
yours, for I will never love that which my friend hates.
Came he not home to-night?
That which upholdeth him that thee upholds,
Or raise myself, but keep my wonted calling?
I will be mild and gentle in my speech.
I do desire it with all my heart, and I hope it is
Lord governor, for so we hear you are,
Thy evil spirit, Brutus.
Stop,
Go, go, good countrymen, and, for this fault,
To wrong him with thy importunacy?
And, not dispraising whom we praised,--therein
Towards their project. Then I beat my tabour,
I pray you, turn the key and keep our counsel.
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
Both strength of limb and policy of mind,
being so proper.
So are a number more.
The business of the state does him offence,
Andronicus, would thou wert shipp'd to hell,
I came to serve a king and not a duke.
Tell us, old man, how shall we be employ'd?
Like a bright exhalation m the evening,
Am bold to show myself a forward guest
Well placed: there stands your friend for the
Leave off discourse of disability:
Continue still in this so good a mind,
There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
Among a mineral of metals base,
Whose aim seems far too short to hit me here:
duke to the nuptial. But, O, how bitter a thing it
Though his right arm might purchase his own time
Thomas Cromwell,
Great lords, from Ireland am I come amain,
'Tis strange my Theseus, that these
Which I have pass'd upon her, she is banish'd.
Be sure you be not loose, for those you make friends
Yet something leads me forth.
Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
As thou canst yield a melancholy seat!
Did the sea toss upon our shore this chest:
You bees that make these locks of counsel! Lovers
Mi perdonato, gentle master mine,
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
Great Kings of France and England! That I have labour'd,
A wightly wanton with a velvet brow,
[To TITUS]  Two of thy whelps, fell curs of
hand, Menas: if our eyes had authority, here they
For after the stout Earl Northumberland
Grew fat with feasting there.
How now, rustics! whither are you bound?
But could be willing to march on to Calais
If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof
My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold,
Thou never shalt mock Diomed again.
I am as mad as he,
The poor remainder of Andronici
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
Of nature's germens tumble all together,
You are too swift, sir, to say so:
Began to scold and raise up such a storm
A natural perspective, that is and is not!
My noble lord,--
Both? one? or neither? Neither can be enjoy'd,
The false revolting Normans thorough thee
So oft as that shall be,
Would he had!
Come, swear it, damn thyself
Is 'mongst the dead, and all the lands thou hast
With customary compliment, when he,
Sprawl'st thou? take that, to end thy agony.
that I may say in the default, he is a man I know.
to me and say, after to-morrow, 'This is my glove,'
And mark what object did present itself:
How the devil Luxury, with his fat rump and
When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
acquaintance?
Out of your favours, heavenly spirits, vouchsafe
manhood is melted into courtesies, valour into
you must learn to know such slanders of the age, or
I know vat I have to do. Adieu.
Enter HECTOR
The penitent instrument to pick that bolt,
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle,
For certain ducats: he with none return'd
Summon a session, that we may arraign
Ere they have done their mischief. Where's thy drum?
staff understands me.
It should not stand in thy posterity,
The very beadsmen learn to bend their bows
Here in the lobby.
As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
But I say there is no hope in't: our throats are
Madam, I was not old sir Robert's son:
When think you that the sword goes up again?
No, not a denier. Go by, Jeronimy: go to thy cold
And his soft couch defile.
Sir, it is a mystery.
He were as much more villain: you, my lord,
Which, hearing them, would call their brothers fools.
Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you!
Discomfort swells. Mark, king of Scotland, mark:
If thou read this, O Caesar, thou mayst live,
Thou precious varlet,
Led by their master to the flowered fields,
Never bestrid a horse, save one that had
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
solemnity, her brother Frederick was wrecked at sea,
It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
I wait upon his pleasure. Come, Sir Thurio,
In cunning I must draw my sword upon you
SCENE II. The country near Dunsinane.
Exit SALISBURY
Exit
Fear not, my lord: we can contain ourselves,
Delight in them sets off: some kinds of baseness
No, Valentine.
half, but his right cheek is worn bare.
Enter HELENA
Well, what's your suit?
I will upon all hazards well believe
How Troy was burnt and he made miserable?
Come, Kate, thou art perfect in lying down: come,
wept to have seen our parting, why, my grandam,
Thou, Richard, shalt to the Duke of Norfolk,
Without more motive, into every brain
I did not well I meant well. All my services
Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.
Well, sir, here is for your pains. What said she?
Go on, I'll follow thee.
Came to the altar, where she kneel'd, and saint-like
What say'st thou, my lady?
Few come within the compass of my curse,--
O God, sir, here's a dish I love not: I cannot
to continue now, thou varlet, thou art to continue.
potatoes, let it thunder to the tune of Green
Advise you what you say, the minister is here.
Come, come, my lord, you'ld spare your spoons: you
I would thou didst itch from head to foot and I had
O illiterate loiterer! it was the son of thy
Which shows me many more, and some I see
ACT V
And had no help of anger: they were parted
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  What does he mean?
See, what a grace was seated on this brow,
Exeunt LUCILIUS and TITINIUS
Marry, we were sent for to the justices.
Shall lose his head for his presumption.
To see these honours in possession.
Of speaking first. Sweet, bid me hold my tongue,
If thou dost slander her and torture me,
That now is lying in Marseilles' road.
I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
That art a votary to fond desire?
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
A gentleman.
Laissez, mon seigneur, laissez, laissez: ma foi, je
Be perfect.
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage, and,
O, full of careful business are his looks!
Some bring the murder'd body, some the murderers:
Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner:
Than hear say how I got them.
We fear to warrant in our native place!
Were you but riding forth to air yourself,
What, is Lavinia then become so loose,
To part so slightly with your wife's first gift:
To make it gracious. For my private part,
Caesar and Antony have ever won
he that died o' Wednesday. Doth he feel it? no.
When thou art Timon's dog, and these knaves honest.
First note that he is near you in descent,
Where of the execution did cry out
One ever near thee: call for Enobarbus,
That I will work against him: therefore your oaths
Hath hither brought.
Now stops thy spring, my sea sha$l suck them dry,
Bade me come smiling and cross-garter'd to you,
What is it, my good lord, the king languishes of?
SCENE V. Alexandria. MARK ANTONY's camp.
That Julius Caesar was a famous man,
For husbands, fathers and betrothed lovers,
From France to England, there to live in peace.
It is so too: and have not we affections,
In heaven, send hither to see: if your messenger
Was by the rough seas reft of ships and men,
Why, now you speak
And hides a sword from hilts unto the point
Let me give light, but let me not be light,
And yet, I think, jet did he never see.
Thy name in arms were now as great as mine!
Were there in arms, they would be as a call
Leave all the rest to me.
That wails her absence?
Of the duke only, 'gainst all other voice.
Neapolitan's, a better bad habit of frowning than
and devils!
Richer than sea and land? O, theft most base,
I hinder you too long: good night, Sir Thomas.
When we are born, we cry that we are come
A title for a maid of all titles the worst.
I could neither believe nor misdoubt. Pray you,
Noble prince,
Who ambles Time withal?
Cause it to sound, beseech you.
Whom thou obeyed'st thirty and six years,
He did: and with an absolute 'Sir, not I,'
Away, boy, from the troops, and save thyself,
But that I know love is begun by time,
No richer than his honour: how he glisters
Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
Thou subtle, perjured, false, disloyal man!
And so deliver, I am put to sea
What I shall die to want. But this is trifling,
But, hark thee, I will go to her alone:
my two mistresses: what a beast am I to slack it!
The kings your ancestors, together with
And sent her enemies unto the grave.
And make the meanest of you earls and dukes?
I, in probation of a sisterhood,
To change the cod's head for the salmon's tail,
laid to the charge of women?
And make a moral of the devil himself.
honourable parts, and are the governor of this place.
All manner of men assembled here in arms this day
But who comes here?
Christendom. If thou hadst been born blind, thou
I fear it, I promise you.
That wrings mine eyes to't.
What say you to it? will you again unknit
Both of you
In this uncivil and thou unjust extent
But spoke the harm that is by others done?
And out of question so it is sometimes,
Marcus, we will.
Thus, leaning on mine elbow, I begin,
Which often, thus, correcting thy stout heart,
That promise noble service: and they come
The precious note of it with a base slave.
Though Paris came in hope to speed alone.
How I persuaded, how I pray'd, and kneel'd,
For 'tis my limited service.
Distinctly his full function.
Too proud to be so valiant.
Were tried by every tongue, every eye saw 'em,
Yet let us all together to our troops,
great presage of cruelty.
Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty,
I did not send you: if you find him sad,
Ghost
lie,
Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune
If what I now pronounce you have found true:
a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
An if I could, what should I get therefore?
As though she bid me stay by her a week:
I will speak daggers to her, but use none,
Why are you grown so rude? what change is this?
If my suspect be false, forgive me, God,
Made such a sinner of his memory,
I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well,
I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than
Go, Faulconbridge: now hast thou thy desire,
any weather at all, and another storm brewing,
He be as miserably slain as I.
I will not trust you, sir.
My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.
I'll leave you to your fortune and be gone
And finding little comfort to relieve them,
Assays to lead the way: if I once stir,
Content yourself. God knows I loved my niece,
I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad:
And therein you are senseless.
Hath he so long held out with me untired,
An oath that I have sworn. I will not break it:
Than this, that nothing do I see in you,
Destroy'd in such a shape.
You have paid home: but that you have vouchsafed,
Ten masts at each make not the altitude
That I might sit all night and watch with you:
Of the grave wearers. O, the sacrifice!
physic your rankness, and yet give no thousand
You were now running o'er: you have scarce time
Enter some, bringing forward the Clerk of Chatham
You should in all sense be much bound to him.
As infinite as man may undergo--
For my free speech! you must awhile be patient:
which hath two letters for her name fairly set down
Better consider what you have to do
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England,
The fall'n-off Britons, that we do incite
and vengeance bitter, but those that are germane to
The soldier that did company these three
Whip me, ye devils,
But Montague is bound as well as I,
Gloves as sweet as damask roses,
Hath he not twit our sovereign lady here
A thing devised by the enemy.
And take it from a heart that wishes towards you
Petruchio, patience, I am Grumio's pledge:
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
Should find a running banquet ere they rested,
Enter SIR RICHARD VERNON
Ajax, your guard, stays to conduct you home.
All the water in Wye cannot wash your majesty's
I serve thee not.
Till then, 'tis wisdom to conceal our meaning.
Say, you ne'er had done't--
Full of rose-water and bestrew'd with flowers,
It gives a very echo to the seat
I hope you do not mean to cheat me so.
To be new-varnish'd! Well, but to my choice:
What time I threw the people's suffrages
Why, masters, my good friends, mine honest neighbours,
My sight is very dull, whate'er it bodes.
To be our regent in these parts of France:
My father and Glendower being both away,
I am content.
And, when he thinks, good easy man, full surely
Exeunt Whitmore and others with Suffolk
MIRANDA sleeps
not prophesy so.
prononcer ces mots devant les seigneurs de France
Struck pale and bloodless, and thy brother, I,
All blest secrets,
I am inform'd that he comes towards London,
Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart,
majesty's name, apprehend him: he's a friend of the
Yet I am doubtful for I am mainly ignorant
That say thou art a man: Diana's lip
And chase the native beauty from his cheek
I will proclaim thee, Angelo, look for't:
Be brave, then, for your captain is brave, and vows
Please it this matron and this gentle maid
the statutes, he may stay him: marry, not without
Take your time.
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
He calls me to a restitution large
But none of us cared for Kate,
What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty,
Fare thee well: commend me to them both: there's
And forced to live in Scotland a forlorn,
Thy master in bleeding: say his name, good friend.
Immediately provided in that case.
What's his excuse?
odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me,
Though ne'er so cunningly you smother it.
action outdone his former deeds doubly
This is fairy gold, boy, and 'twill prove so: up
that you have suffered, I think to repay that money
as two and fifty horses: why, nothing comes amiss,
'Tis like you'll prove a jolly surly groom,
judgment, your highness is not entertained with that
Gentle son Edward, thou wilt stay with me?
Helicanus, thou
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words!
You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy,
Ned, I give thee this pennyworth of sugar, clapped
And thou shalt have more
He hath been in unusual pleasure, and
The fabric of his folly, whose foundation
DON
To force that on you, in a shameful cunning,
You had not show'd them how ye were disposed
O heaven, that such companions thou'ldst unfold,
What hath he said?
It is Captain Macmorris, is it not?
Brother of Gloucester, at Saint Alban's field
Excuse me.
That like a football you do spurn me thus?
Why, then, methinks 'tis time to smile again.
That outward courtesies would fain proclaim
And all my followers to the eager foe
Who shall not be more dear to my respect
repute and carriage.
For food and diet, to some enterprise
Perceive I speak sincerely, and high note's
But did you never swear, and break an oath?
O, you and I have heard our fathers say,
own country, be out of love with your nativity and
My life upon her faith! Honest Iago,
account?--Yet who would have thought the old man
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
About your years, my lord.
Sir, the gods
prince. But, Hal, I prithee, trouble me no more
A pox on him, he's a cat still.
These two have 'ticed me hither to this place:
The harmony of this peace. The vision
That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have
Madam, have comfort: all of us have cause
When it hath blown his ranks into the air,
Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.
Throws him his purse
Whither I invite you. Look, Thaisa is recovered.
more and leave this young man in pawn till I bring it you.
He will not fight with me, Domitius.
Speak, count, 'tis your cue.
excessive grief the enemy to the living.
That live in her, when liver, brain and heart,
No, good madam, pardon me, indeed, I will not forth.
Make such unconstant children of ourselves,
Re-enter the EARL OF DOUGLAS
As dear be to thee as thy father was.
That nature, which contemns its origin,
indeed, but how honourable he is in that, I know not.
We thank you all.
All hurt behind, backs red, and faces pale
To do a murderous deed, to rob a man,
your guard, for your opposite hath in him what
A wretched creature and must bend his body,
Words against me? this is a good friar, belike!
Sail how thou canst, have wind and tide thy friend,
Exeunt
And one that is as slanderous as Satan?
Or swell the curled water 'bove the main,
your hearts.
Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
From off the head of this Athenian swain,
[Within]  What, 's all the doors open here?
To new-store France with bastard warriors.
O, 'tis a tender place, and I must leave her.
Show'd mastership in floating, fortune's blows,
And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.
I confess two sleeves.
He heard the name of death.
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
But, more of thy news?
unlooked for, and there's an end.
Only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
With full and holy rite be minister'd,
Where there was no proportion held in love.
The doom of Egypt.
Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans
and, masters, do not forget to specify, when time
God save your lordship!
And give her as a prey to law and shame,
Enter EDWARD, running
He wish'd to-day our enterprise might thrive.
What, ho, Pilch!
Exeunt Executioners
Lack blood to think on't, and flush youth revolt:
Have you the heart? When your head did but ache,
That without covering, save yon field of stars,
a devil, and no monster: I will leave him, I have no
Of this was Tamora delivered,
O' the t'other side, the policy of those crafty
Go fetch me something: I'll break ope the gate.
When I desired him to come home to dinner,
To the majestic cedar join'd, whose issue
What I have been I have forgot to know,
Tell on thy mind, I say thy child shall live.
The heaven sets spies upon us, will not have
Women are soft, mild, pitiful and flexible,
fingering, so, we'll try with tongue too: if none
What you have seen him do and heard him speak,
Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
To AGAMEMNON
Despite Duke Humphrey or the cardinal.
Before thy face repent!
What, what? Nay, then I must have an ounce or two
confirmed countenance. I saw him run after a gilded
The Count Rousillon cannot be my brother:
Come here himself to question our delay,
He'll never yield to that.
Will she away to-night?
What think you, Captain Fluellen? is it fit this
And bashful Henry deposed, whose cowardice
I do beweep to many simple gulls
There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
Here comes your man, now is your husband nigh.
Faith, he is gone unto the taming-school.
For Brutus is an honourable man,
Flourish. Alarum. A retreat is sounded. Flourish.  Enter, from one side, COMINIUS with the Romans, from the other side, MARCIUS, with his arm in a scarf
friends? O, what a precious comfort 'tis, to have
Trumpet sounds. Enter General and others, aloft
my counterfeiting to him. Will you go?
Beat down Alencon, Orleans, Burgundy,
This is my treasurer: let him speak, my lord,
Or I attach you by this officer.
I have heard it, Pompey,
To suffer all alike. That he should dream,
My brother hath done well.
And will not any way dishonour me.
Is our best having.
in it. A villanous coward! Go thy ways, old Jack,
My lord, here stays without
And Cassio high in oath, which till to-night
Go, some of you, knock at the abbey-gate
For fury not to be resisted. Thus defied,
Hysterica passio, down, thou climbing sorrow,
him accordingly, as you value your trust--
As I have such a heart that both mine ears
with a shame as ample.
tongues: therefore follow me, and I direct you how
sayest thou to this tune, matter and method? Is't
Well, go, prepare yourself.
My husband bids me, now I will unmask.
cure of the thing you wot of, unless they kept very
But misery: I know 'tis from Cordelia,
Would I admit, no name of magistrate,
In a wide sea of wax: no levell'd malice
A man that languishes in your displeasure.
One, lady, if you knew his pure heart's truth,
A confused noise within:   'Mercy on us!'--  'We split, we split!'--'Farewell, my wife and  children!'-- 'Farewell, brother!'--'We split, we split, we split!'
To emblaze the honour that thy master got.
Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love,
His name is Romeo, and a Montague,
'Shall I bid him go?'
is to behold him with flies blown to death. But what
Poor gentleman! his wrong doth equal mine.
Exeunt
Into the purse of rich prosperity
For thy undaunted mettle should compose
Not all these, laid in bed majestical,
Gold? yellow, glittering, precious gold? No, gods,
I vow'd, base knight, when I did meet thee next,
And set the murderous Machiavel to school.
With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog,
O, I am scalded with my violent motion,
What would you with her, sir?
As broad Achilles, keeps his tent like him,
Such another proof will make me cry 'baa.'
To haste unto your coronation,
That done, I will be walking on the works,
sun-burning, that never looks in his glass for love
and have given ourselves without scruple to hell,
And pierce the inmost centre of the earth:
Shall star-like rise, as great in fame as she was,
I am so angry at these abject terms,
Which, in the day of battle, tire thee more
And deeper than oblivion we do bury
I'll answer to my lust: and know you, lord,
Exit
Rather rejoicing to see another merry, than merry at
Ay, my good lord, 'twas he inform'd against him,
I shall not be hang'd now, although I would,
Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
near me, noble, or not I for an angel, of good
Thou unadvised scold, I can produce
Now God in heaven forbid!
The reasons are more potent and heroical:
mortal wretch,
On thy soul's peril and thy body's torture,
breakfast to the wolf: if thou wert the wolf, thy
And his kinsman too.
Lo, by my truth, the instrument is cold
Yes.
Duke of Anjou and Maine, yet is he poor,
And even since then hath Richard been obscured,
Take that, thou likeness of this railer here.
Thou art too wild, too rude and bold of voice,
I have some marks of yours upon my pate,
To give her princely training, that she may be
The oil, the balsamum and aqua-vitae.
then of a crescent note, expected to prove so worthy
towards you: I have told you what I have seen
no more valour in that Poins than in a wild-duck.
SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.
It is a nipping and an eager air.
now with the doctor at the deanery, and there married.
SCENE I. Westminster Hall.
They bore him barefaced on the bier,
Re-enter BERTRAM
He speaks plain cannon fire, and smoke and bounce,
But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon,
I am thy friend, and pity thee, dear Timon.
Master Page, as I am a man, there was one conveyed
He that bereft thee, lady, of thy husband,
Before I have a husband for the elder:
That in a twink she won me to her love.
Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love,
face me. Give me a cup of sack: I am a rogue, if I
What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?
And overmuch consumed his royal person:
Why, your dolphin is not lustier: 'fore me,
What, ho!
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
Was ne'er distributed.
These are the parents to these children,
That you must lose a husband.
While other men, of slender reputation,
What time o' day?
yesterday, for the other has half, by the entreaty
Alas, poor soul!
I am transformed, master, am I not?
I'll show you here at large. Hark, good mine host.
I fear he will indeed: well, let him have them:
To the court of King Simonides
That do distribute it, in the name o' the people
Which on more view, of many mine being one
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
Or butchers killing flies.
When I have said, cry 'woe!' the queen, the queen,
Why, then, it is like, if there come a hot June and
By decimation, and a tithed death--
Think that thy babes were fairer than they were,
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands,
There 's nothing serious in mortality:
Which might have well becomed the best of men,
I call upon thee.
Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils,
As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods.
no longer in monument than the bell rings and the
Therefore I tell my sorrows to the stones,
Infect the sound pine and divert his grain
ANTIPHOLUS
My lords, I care not, so much I am happy
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the Courtezan, and PINCH
Who dead? speak, man.
Consider, sir, the chance of war: the day
But faults so countenanced, that the strong statutes
To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know
Speak on, but be not over-tedious.
God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion's death
The help of mine own eyes.
A thousand more mischances than this one
Enter two Keepers, with cross-bows in their hands
Acquaint her with the danger of my state:
duke: and I believe I know the cause of his
No more words: the clerk is answered.
And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight.
clothes, but I am now, sir, muddied in fortune's
Whilst damned Casca, like a cur, behind
Why have I blabb'd? who shall be true to us,
And know their spring, their head, their
Arrested him at York, and brought him forward,
call. Bully knight! bully Sir John! speak from
Ay me, this object kills me!
keep below stairs?
courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I
But no man's virtue nor sufficiency
With shears his thread of silk.
This heavy act with heavy heart relate.
She knows the heat of a luxurious bed,
You bid them rise, and live.
The gods confound thee! dost thou hold there still?
or strip your sword stark naked, for meddle you
You shall not go, my lord.
Exeunt
for some hour before you took me from the breach of
your prophet the Nazarite conjured the devil into. I
ungenitured agent will unpeople the province with
As under privilege of age to brag
prince in the night, you may stay him.
O short-lived pride! Not fair? alack for woe!
Lay her a-hold, a-hold! set her two courses off to
And so wast thou, Lord Hastings, when my son
Than customary bounty can enforce you.
Made glory base and sovereignty a slave,
Therein false struck, can take no greater wound,
An if I live until I be a man,
And the remainder mourning over them,
I saw their weapons drawn: there was a noise,
That makes calamity of so long life,
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
Give me the crown. Here, cousin, seize the crown,
Since Cleopatra died,
What hour now?
Noble madam,
What pleasure, sir, find we in life, to lock it
Whilst I, with those that have the spirit, will haste
GREMIO discovered. Enter behind BIONDELLO, LUCENTIO, and BIANCA
That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast!
Show me a murderer, I'll deal with him.
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband:
And to become the geck and scorn
Well, then, imprison him: if imprisonment be the
Seven? why, there were but four even now.
No doubt he's noble,
There's livers out of Britain.
As your fair self, doth tune us otherwise:
I think, is not for idle markets, sir.
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
A dire induction am I witness to,
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
Hotspur of the north, he that kills me some six or
Shall sun that morrow see!
One Julia, that his changing thoughts forget,
POLONIUS hides behind the arras
A pretty plot, well chosen to build upon!
Then deputy of Ireland, who removed,
Run, Lucius, and commend me to my lord,
Think so, Iago!
Awake remembrance of these valiant dead
Thus purifies itself and turns to grace.
We kill the fowl of season: shall we serve heaven
Fridays. He's not past it yet, and I say to thee,
How angerly I taught my brow to frown,
O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease: he
To view the sick and feeble parts of France:
brutish villain! worse than brutish! Go, sirrah,
For often have you writ to her, and she, in modesty,
Do not deny. Beshrew his soul for me,
As he shall smile, Othello shall go mad,
I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted and said 'Ay.'
Make livers pale and lustihood deject.
Why, hark ye, hark ye! and are you such fools
basket: I quaked for fear, lest the lunatic knave
Yours, sir,
'Tis pity she's not honest, honourable:'
Report is changeable. 'Tis time to look about, the
He was a king bless'd of the King of kings.
Yea, 'gainst the authority of manners, pray'd you
To both these sisters have I sworn my love,
Cleopatra!
Did call me brother.
In his own course.
Exit
of this malapert blood from you.
I am perfect what: cut off one Cloten's head,
In censure of his seeming.
All the conspirators save only he
My forces and my power of men are yours:
Enter the corpse of KING HENRY the Sixth, Gentlemen with halberds to guard it, LADY ANNE being the mourner
Unless my sins abuse my divination--
I cannot tell: things must be as they may: men may
remuneration:' why, it carries it. Remuneration!
I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so:
No, I am an ape.
a thing of naught.
SONG.
And to that woman, when she has done most,
A prize! a prize!
general dependants as in the duke himself also and
Enter HORATIO, MARCELLUS, and BERNARDO
Have here deliver'd me to my sour cross,
Exit
Yea, but not change his spots: take but my shame.
Than men their minds! 'tis true.
Thither go these news, as fast as horse can
There is a gentleman that serves the count
What can be their business
him with any appearance of fear, lest he, by showing
As if it had been sow'd. Yet still it's strange
[Reads]
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
some, he is in Rome: but where is he, think you?
I cannot read, the character I'll take with wax:
Here is a man--but 'tis before his face,
Thy grave is digg'd already in the earth.
Thanks, gentle Norfolk: stay by me, my lords,
Nature presently distill'd
my name is Brook, only for a jest.
Salisbury, cheer thy spirit with this comfort,
By hers and mine adultery. He, true knight,
Myself in person will straight follow you.
The ills we do, their ills instruct us so.
My cake is dough, but I'll in among the rest,
Their thimbles into armed gauntlets change,
Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes,
I shall beseech him to befriend himself.
To such abhorr'd pollution.
SCENE I. The British camp, near Dover.
Imagine Pericles arrived at Tyre,
For raging wind blows up incessant showers,
I seek to heal it only by his wealth:
You, that have turn'd off a first so noble wife,
with Sir Oliver Martext, the vicar of the next
And my appointments have in them a need
Nor for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom,
Which, when I know that boasting is an honour,
Who comes so fast in silence of the night?
There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news:
paper, although the sheet were big enough for the
Enter NERISSA, dressed like a lawyer's clerk
The prodigal Christian. Jessica, my girl,
By us, a pair of kings. Let's from this place.
A boy?
And throw it thence into the raging sea!
Enter ALCIBIADES, with Attendants
Nay, bear three daughters: by your leave I speak it,
I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
Exeunt
Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland,
And he knew my deceased father well.
He is the only man of Italy.
Lord Timon's mad.
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
Nay, let him alone: I'll go another way to work
Because I will not jump with common spirits
By cold gradation and well-balanced form,
apples. But come, since this bar in law makes us
Albeit against my conscience and my soul.
Come, sirrah, you must be hanged.
But I will delve one yard below their mines,
Second trumpet
We three are but thyself, and, speaking so,
Far in the fresh lap of the crimson rose,
Nor I neither, but I can tell why a snail has a house.
What simple thief brags of his own attaint?
snake, and I will have an apology for that purpose.
God will in justice ward you as his soldiers,
hour: observe him, for the love of mockery, for I
But come, I'll tell thee all my whole device
Flourish. Exeunt
Where Spain?
Come, let us to our holy task again.
To be full quit of those my banishers,
Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
My praises made thee first a soldier, so,
Pray thee, fellow, peace: I do not like thy look,
Your business of the world hath so an end,
For that 'Forgive our Romans.' O, a kiss
Let him cry 'Praise and glory on his head!'
all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor.
uncapable of pity, void and empty
ends, as they say.
particulars therein to a total.
Alarum. The Romans are beat back to their trenches. Re-enter MARCIUS cursing
They do not love that do not show their love.
Most honest men! Why, how shall I requite you?
By God, he shall not have a Scot of them,
Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
I might do't as well i' the dark.
with him! better shame than murder.
I speak amazedly, and it becomes
My master, my dear lord he is, and I
Tear my bright hair and scratch my praised cheeks,
My husband and my lord, my lord and husband,
Yes, that I will, and wherefore will I do it?
Now must I hide his body in some hole,
How art thou call'd? and what is thy degree?
So young, and so untender?
Enter Boy
Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
You do yourself mighty wrong, Master Ford.
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes.
For any suit of pounds, and you, O fate!
That keep the word of promise to our ear,
How now, Varrius!
Fauste, precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra
my state,--
That shall express my true love's fasting pain.
Caesar's ambition,
Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins,
inconstant, and mutability, and variation: and her
O, a brave man!
REGAN plucks his beard
So Brutus should be found. I thank thee, Brutus,
thankful to thee shall be my study, and my profit
Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me
Who broils in loud applause, and make him fall
Because we brave her: come.
Let me go grind their bones to powder small
hath made him that gracious denial which he is most
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
Which torments me to conceal. By villany
Enter Pyramus
For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope:
Spring come to you at the farthest
Crown him and say 'Long live our emperor!'
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
That shall demonstrate these quick blows of Fortune's
For love is still most precious in itself,
And shake the peace and safety of our throne.
And ne'er have spoke a loving word to you,
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
I am agreed, and would I had given him the best
Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thou
Sooner this sword shall plough thy bowels up.
Did he receive you well?
Thy grandfather, Roger Mortimer, Earl of March:
More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth,
What, are you mad? I charge you, get you home.
But sanctuary children ne'er till now.
Your grace doo's me as great honours as can be
Till I have set a glory to this hand,
found, or, if it were, it would neither serve for
sings when he touches it, the basest horn of his
To set thee here?
Devised at first to keep the strong in awe:
Most wise in general: tell me, if thou canst,
The courses of his youth promised it not.
Please it our general to pass strangely by him,
My love with words and errors still she feeds,
could be set up against mortality.
And leave eighteen. Alas, poor princess,
Enter CLAUDIO, BEATRICE, HERO, and LEONATO
Forward, I pray, since we have come so far,
SCENE I. Florence. The DUKE's palace.
I'll after, more to be revenged on Eglamour
Vex not his prescience, be attentive.
How comes it that the subtle Queen of Goths
Or like an idle thresher with a flail,
finder of madmen. But see, but see.
As letting her pass so: had I spoke with her,
And that most deeply to consider is
As good to chide the waves as speak them fair.
Then shall Hector be whipped for Jaquenetta that is
Therefore, good youth, address thy gait unto her,
Wast beaten from Modena, where thou slew'st
Shall I be tempted to infringe my vow
And why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue,
For my part, I'll resign unto your grace
And 'tis well seen he found an enemy.
He must be told on't, and he shall: the office
Prithee, be my present partner in this business, and
Nay, when? strike now, or else the iron cools.
None could be so abused in sight as he.
Peace, chewet, peace!
Bethink thee on her virtues that surmount,
Witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart,
With his good will and thy good company,
With his tinct gilded thee.
The people cry you mock'd them, and of late,
That bate and beat and will not be obedient.
His princess, say you, with him?
second edition: he will print them, out of doubt,
To speak unto this city: what say you?
written in eight and six.
Thy father hath.
merited, either in my mind or, in my means, meed,
Take up the rays o' the beneficial sun
Here is Sir Diomed. Go, gentle knight,
sheet of paper: my daughter tells us all.
Go, get thee hence, for I will not away.
Exeunt
you no song, forester, for this purpose?
hot, my very lips might freeze to my teeth, my
have another leek in my pocket, which you shall eat.
Why, no, the day had broke
be seen through the lion's neck: and he himself
sleep, and they may have their throats about them at
He is more patient
If Richard will be true, not that alone
Away with it! come, let me have a bigger.
Enter JULIET
me merry. I was as virtuously given as a gentleman
Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang!
More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear,
When I bestrid thee in the wars and took
Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
MOTH retires
No: let my father seek another heir.
In will peculiar and in self-admission.
Than what I know, yet shall the oracle
That the great figure of a council frames
Why, there it goes: God give his lordship joy!
Shall leave his native channel and o'erswell
If there be one among the fair'st of Greece
'Slight, will you make an ass o' me?
O monstrous beast! how like a swine he lies!
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
[Aside]  Villain and he be many miles asunder.--
To all our sorrows, and ere long I doubt.
No more than what he thinks he is.
Thou dost thyself and all our Troy deceive.
prithee, let my meat make thee silent.
No, my love, I should not mourn, but die for thee.
Which I have darted at thee, hurt thee not,
Beseech you, tribunes, hear me but a word.
Enter SCALES upon the Tower, walking. Then enter two or three Citizens below
A Death's face in a ring.
Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we
Good Kate, I am a gentleman.
Is such as basest and contemned'st wretches
Alter thy course for Tyre. When canst thou reach it?
What, are ye daunted now? now will ye stoop?
Flourish. Exeunt KING RICHARD II and train
Comes through commissions, which compel from each
That which combined us was most great, and let not
The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
By me they nothing gain an if I stay,
You will not pay for the glasses you have burst?
Thou common friend, that's without faith or love,
And all the trouble thou hast turn'd me to?
Well could I curse away a winter's night,
in their hearts, that for their tongues to be
Even women have cast off, melt thee, but be
Thou basest thing, avoid! hence, from my sight!
Yet have I something in me dangerous,
Why, 'tis found so.
Sir,
I'll have thy head for this thy traitor's speech.
I found by fortune and did give my husband,
Make space enough between you.
The title of this most renowned duke,
Is twice the other twain: but let us rear
Exit SILVIA, with attendants
They may vex us with shot, or with assault.
To do what?
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
But not remember'd in thy epitaph!
Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?
Nor made to court an amorous looking-glass,
All his in dedication, for his sake
to the wall.
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
men, what you have to the king: being something
[Within]  Brother Troilus!
Oh, poor Clarence!
My commission
Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd: I'll entreat for thee.
No leisure had he to enrank his men,
have sufferd all this. My suit then is desperate,
No more, I say! For that I have not wash'd
towards her.
Enter CLAUDIO
No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord,
I peseech you heartily, scurvy, lousy knave, at my
Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air
My courage try by combat, if thou darest,
A distaff to a lance, gilded pale looks,
cuckold, they would make themselves whores, but
The bigger bulk it shows. Hence, bashful cunning!
Get goal for goal of youth. Behold this man,
Which I did think with slower foot came on,
Exeunt all but BEDFORD and Attendants
Ye say honestly: rest you merry!
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
The sweet degrees that this brief world affords
nothing so fitly as to a whale, a' plays and
But I, that am not shaped for sportive tricks,
How say you?
SCENE I. A room in Lucullus' house.
You must away to-night.
SCENE I. Rochester. An inn yard.
Lend thine ear.
Approach, there! Ah, you kite! Now, gods
thou silly gentleman!
Harry the king, Bedford and Exeter,
Have power to utter. O, then we bring forth weeds,
The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw,
And able means, we had not parted thus.
shall be encountered with a man as good as himself:
When peers thus knit, a kingdom ever stands.
And I do love thee: therefore, go with me,
Why, then, give way, dull clouds, to my quick curses!
Here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty,
so near with their lips that their breaths embraced
I did say so,
Exeunt
Meanwhile I am possess'd of that is mine.
What though the mast be now blown overboard,
I crave your pardon. Soon at five o'clock,
Didst hear her speak? is she shrill-tongued or low?
Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
In three our kingdom: and 'tis our fast intent
How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd!
Would stretch thy spirits up into the air:
I would to God all strifes were well compounded.
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
Exeunt, severally, GLOUCESTER and BISHOP OF WINCHESTER with their Serving-men
Come in, come in: I'll go get a fire.
a muzzle and enfranchised with a clog, therefore I
purpose you undertake is dangerous,'--why, that's
you see? look you there: there's no jesting,
Most of the rest slaughter'd or took likewise.
'Tis with cares.
On Tuesday noon, or night, on Wednesday morn:
But as the fierce vexation of a dream.
I could not stir him:
To the dead bodies of my queen and son:
Repast them with my blood.
Whoever gave that counsel, to give forth
Now for our mountain sport: up to yond hill,
the angry law, do no stain to your own gracious
Antony,
Ay, my good lord.
I'll rather be unmannerly than troublesome.
the search,
That speak against us! A charge we bear i' the war,
Most thankfully, my lord.
Don John had made, away went Claudio enraged, swore
And better would it fit Achilles much
I will hold my peace when Achilles' brach bids me, shall I?
An you re us and fa us, you note us.
And say 'Ah, ha! you're caught.'
I would not kill thy unprepared spirit,
Proud of employment, willingly I go.
'Tis certain so, the prince wooes for himself.
If you please,
Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
We are two lions litter'd in one day,
'No woman shall succeed in Salique land:'
am I, go to then, there's sympathy: you are merry,
reverberates
So soon be drawn, nor did he think it meet
Came he right now to sing a raven's note,
Who's there? my woman Helen?
Madam, and you, my mother, will you go
He is an absolute master.
Our letters, madam, show'd much more than jest.
A halter, soldiers! hang him on this tree.
Awake the snorting citizens with the bell,
A statelier pyramis to her I'll rear
May be she doth but counterfeit.
Sola! did you see Master Lorenzo?
to my fingers, and there is salmons in both. If you
Exit
And with no little study, that my teaching
Intend here to besiege you in your castle:
Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor,
But both of you were vow'd Duke Humphrey's foes,
The day begins to break, and night is fled,
This morning come before us, where, I know,
Find written in the margent of his eyes.
Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever.
Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
I thank you, sir.
'Tis proper I obey him, but not now.
see most bravely: I'll tell you them all by their
I rest perplexed with a thousand cares.
O, peace! the friar is come.
To catch the nearest way: thou wouldst be great,
Appears before them, and with solemn march
And would be glad he met with some mischance,
He fell sick suddenly, and grew so ill
It is to be all made of fantasy,
Pray for me! I must now forsake ye: the last hour
Exeunt
Between who?
[To KING RICHARD III]
And put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows
Ay, my lord, an't please you.
And all goes worse than I have power to tell.
I pray for heartily, that it may find
Command me any service to her thither?
And play'd to take spectators. For behold me
Sir Proteus, gentle lady, and your servant.
But lend and give where she is sure to lose,
Away! let's go learn the truth of it.
If by which time our secret be undone,
Enter BUSHY
Which but attends thy naming.
Why, Antony.
That we may do it still without accompt.
Stick deep, and in his royalty of nature
Exeunt Banditti
to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet. So
have challenged him. Let him let the matter slip,
No other obligation! By my life,
We shall not spend a large expense of time
SCENE VI. The same. A room in the brothel.
Art thou gone so? love, lord, ay, husband, friend!
be cheater to them both, and they shall be
Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste,
And do it with all thy heart.
am no honest man if there be any good meaning
Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence,
And made an evening at the noontide prick.
Yet standing in rich place, I multiply
As stooping to relieve him: I not doubt
Where is this Hector?
Craft against vice I must apply:
But that his wildness, mortified in him,
O Cassius, you are yoked with a lamb
Which when I saw, I reprehended them,
To save this brat's life?
No more than were I painted I would wish
So princes their renowns if not respected.
To an ass, were nothing, he is both ass and ox: to
the old man's daughter told us all.
I'll play this bout first, set it by awhile. Come.
Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery,
Make tender of to thy true worthiness:
I know a bank where the wild thyme blows,
Here.
To match you where I hate, therefore beseech you
Great reason, for 'past cure is still past care.'
That we do make our entrance several ways,
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
BISHOP
And after fight with them?
Enter CATESBY
Noble and young,
Follow me, then,
Which, with ourselves, all rest at thy dispose.
ANTIPHOLUS
And skip where thou point'st out? will the
Being all to dolours turn'd?
Exeunt GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS
[Advancing]  How shall I murder him, Iago?
I did, my lord,
I do beseech your majesty may salve
I'll rant as well as thou.
A worthy fellow, and hath ta'en much pain
Sink in apple of his eye.
SCENE II. Rome. An ante-chamber in OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
The senators of Athens: happy man!
Exeunt
Poor wounded name! my bosom as a bed
This is a gift that I have, simple, simple, a
Pray you, tell him
Then bid adieu to me, and say the tears
Arthur doth live, the king hath sent for you.
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
behind you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you
His folly to the mettle of my speech?
At Berwick in the north, an't like your grace.
If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here
To wrong my friend, I shall be much forsworn,
not there for the goose.
I will advise you where to plant yourselves,
That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords,
You are a lover, borrow Cupid's wings,
vanity. You are thought here to be the most
The strangeness of his alter'd countenance?
Frosty, but kindly: let me go with you,
The blessed gods
And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.
Quite through the deeds of men: he loves no plays,
Yes, that a' did, and said they were devils
Which might appal the devil.
one eye upon my follies, as you hear them unfolded,
O Caesar, what a wounding shame is this,
Hail to thee, worthy Timon, and to all
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Matching thy inference. 'Tis not to make me jealous
To be revenged on Rome and Saturnine.
Our loving lawful, and our faith not torn.
That John may stand, then Arthur needs must fall,
Against the Volsces, for they had so vilely
The mean is drown'd with your unruly bass.
And let him learn to know, when maidens sue,
The treasury of everlasting joy.
The o'erpress'd spirits. I heard of an Egyptian
Against the use of nature? Present fears
At Saint Gregory's well.
How is it with you, my most fair Bianca?
To honour them:
For, boy, however we do praise ourselves,
And is not like the sire: honours thrive,
I do remember an apothecary,--
By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.
Join'd with a masker and a reveller!
That if again this apparition come,
Exit
Married the Duke of Clarence' daughter, did he not?
Therefore I have entreated him along
Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour,
Enter FALSTAFF
Rise, Titus, rise, my empress hath prevail'd.
When, by and by, the din of war gan pierce
You mend the jewel by the wearing it.
Is to the court, and there ye shall be my guests:
Both dame and servant, welcomed all, served all,
For swallowing the treasure of the realm:
Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
When I come where he calls, then he is gone.
I sent him from the mart. See, here he comes.
the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humour
Hear ye, captain, are you not at leisure?
The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue,
send him back again to my mother.
Are they good?
What is the news from this good deputy?
Madam, if you could find out but a man
Not this hour, lieutenant, 'tis not yet ten o' the
You have hit it.
presently to Saint Luke's: there, at the moated
other her defences, which now are too too strongly
And am most sensible in grief for it,
passion without some instruction. It is not words
And were I any thing but what I am,
I do but keep the peace: put up thy sword,
Am I but three inches? why, thy horn is a foot, and
Nothing I, but God send every one their heart's desire!
better increasing your folly! Sir Toby will be
I kill'd not thee with half so good a will.
O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
An they will take it, so, if not, he's plain.
Thither shall it then:
deliver to Desdemona would half have corrupted a
When he wakes! why, fool, he shall never wake till
places stops the mouth of all find-faults, as I will
sir in. Very good, well kissed! an excellent
In weightier things you'll say a beggar nay.
And cry 'Your will?' Have you no ears? I am
This throne, this Fortune, and this hill, methinks,
To meet you at the Tower and welcome you.
In golden palaces, as it becomes.
Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
As if it fed ye! and how sleek and wanton
Lo, this is all:--nay, yet depart not so,
I go.
But for thee, fellow, fellow, thy words are madness:
She strikes him
should, he cannot creep into a halfpenny purse,
And gape at widest to glut him.
Enter, several of both houses, who join the fray, then enter Citizens, with clubs
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK and SIR MICHAEL
O, come apace, dispatch! I partly feel thee.
Therefore, go speak: the duke will hear thy voice:
Come, citizens: 'zounds! I'll entreat no more.
prospect of my hopes. Well, Jove, not I, is the
To tell my love unto his dumb deaf trunk,
wisely, wisely.
He calls to horse, but will I know not whither.
O' my word, an she knew him as well as I do, she
William of Windsor was the seventh and last.
place: at length they came to the broom-staff to
Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd?
And so, his knell is knoll'd.
To close the day up, Hector's life is done.
Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
But tell the traitor, in the high'st degree
It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
altered! 'No man must know:' if this should be
[Aside to CLARENCE] God forbid that! for he'll
What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
Good Laertes,
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
Exeunt OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
The opposite of itself: she's good, being gone,
Cursed be I that did so! All the charms
Is to make midnight mushrooms, that rejoice
That Cleon's wife, with envy rare,
Are at my service, like enforced smiles,
And I will wish thee never more to dance,
That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
she kept it,
But I will have them, if I once know where.
DON
Tell him from his all-obeying breath I hear
Signior Baptista may remember me,
poor three, and they can do no more than they can
Enter ANGELO with the chain
Patience is for poltroons, such as he:
Tell him, I'll knock his leek about his pate
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, LAERTES, Lords, OSRIC, and Attendants with foils,  and c
Titinius, if thou lovest me,
Yet be cheerful, knight: thou shalt eat a posset
Though they be never so ridiculous,
of the morning: what I think I utter, and spend my
If it be so, Laertes--
Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Methought I had, and often did I strive
ANTIPHOLUS
'Tis he that sent us hither now to slaughter thee.
adventurously. I must stay with the lackeys, with
With these your white enchanting fingers touch'd,
'My lord, the horses your lordship sent for, with
By the sure physician, death, who is the key
As I conceive the journey, be at the Mount
I wish ye sport.
corner and cry heigh-ho for a husband!
And thou thyself a shearman, art thou not?
Forgot you! no, sir: I could not forget you, for I
That both should speed?
can be filled.
She is a most sweet lady.
It is a sleepy language and thou speak'st
O cousin, cousin!
And one day in a week to touch no food
May a man do it?
Dorset your son, that with a fearful soul
Nay, then, this spark will prove a raging fire,
Trumpets sound a parley
Why, then, farewell,
ANTIPHOLUS
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
And so I am awake. Poor wretches that depend
Now, France, thy glory droopeth to the dust.
With his face backward. In humane gentleness,
And many an old man's sigh and many a widow's,
Unsheathe your sword, and dub him presently.
Stand I before thee here. Then if thou hast
By this you shall not know,
Why, so didst thou: come they of noble family?
strawberries.
The Duke of York is newly come from Ireland,
I must go seek some dewdrops here
Strike, down with them, cut the villains' throats:
Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond,
Ah, my good friend, what cheer?
SCENE IV. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
her maidenhead ere they have it: men shall hold of
Sir, lend me your arm.
M,--Malvolio, M,--why, that begins my name.
Is able with the change to kill and cure.
About relieving of the sentinels:
As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy,
Could he get me? Sir Robert could not do it:
I' the privy chamber?
Let's leave this town, for they are hare-brain'd slaves,
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
Now, as thou art a gentleman of blood,
As if I did but only chew his name,
Not that, I hope, which you received of me.
--Handkerchief--confessions--handkerchief!--To
Sir, the Germans desire to have three of your
No, by the rood, not so:
Come, you are so full of cony-catching!
Come, come, enter my tent.
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND and others, with the prisoners
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and Attendants
May think anon it moves.
Away, begone, the sport is at the best.
Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio's wife?
Nothing at this time but my visitation: only I will
Mocking the air with colours idly spread,
It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
Alack, thou dost usurp authority.
Been what he knew himself, it had gone well:
And what of him? did he take interest?
Bows toward her, and would under-peep her lids,
Nay I'll to him again in name of Brook
You had my prayers to lead them on, and to keep them
As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb and
prince, here is good broken music.
Whom passion could not shake? whose solid virtue
As those two eyes become that heavenly face?
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
The crows and choughs that wing the midway air
Proclaim it, provost, round about the city.
Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea,
You have made fair work!
King and commander of our commonweal,
Prepare thy brow to frown: know'st
Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of
To be relinquish'd of the artists,--
What's your grace's will?
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
And we will hear it.
With purple falchion, painted to the hilt
Enter PROSPERO, FERDINAND, and MIRANDA
But only seeing, all other circumstances
warrant, her rags and the tallow in them will burn a
Farewell the neighing steed, and the shrill trump,
For other service first: toward Ephesus
When judges steal themselves. What, do I love her,
But how long fairly shall her sweet lie last?
I beseech your majesty, give me leave to go,
Why, our battalion trebles that account:
I have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs
I spake with the old woman about it.
Who hath descried the number of the foe?
My life may last to answer.
A goodly apple rotten at the heart:
I did not think thee lord of such a spirit:
But now, I tell thee--keep it to thyself--
Pluck me out all the linen.
But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air,
Thisby, the flowers of odious savours sweet,--
And deeper than did ever plummet sound
Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril,
be patient, there is no fettering of authority.
Follows the choking.
Truly, I thought there had been one number more,
And, like Limander, am I trusty still.
Drink some wine ere you go: fare you well.
What his high hatred would effect wants not
To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish,
And where this breach now in our fortunes made
To make theirs ours and ours none but our own:
Enter LUCENTIO and his man TRANIO
That all is done in reverend care of her,
Ay, you did wish that I would make her turn:
being but half a fish and half a monster?
Here's all that is left living of your queen,
To execute the charge my father gave me
My salad days,
For he was likely, had he been put on,
It is my lord's.
his love, his mistress, and I set him every day to
For never shall you lie by Portia's side
My hopes do shape him for the governor.
One kiss shall stop our mouths, and dumbly part,
therefore consider of his ransom, which must
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
But, hold thee, take this garland on thy brow,
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
Marry, on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
And not so much to feed on as delight,
that she may be the better prepared for an answer,
How camest thou so?
No, uncle, I'll none: Adam's sons are my brethren,
Good Proteus, go with me to my chamber,
Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel
Not mine, my gloves are on.
all the kind of the Launces have this very fault. I
To whom am I beholding for these limbs?
Then lays his finger on his temple, straight
That is well known, and, as I think, one father:
You speak not as you think: it cannot be.
To still my beating mind.
He cannot want the best
Else had she with her father ranged along.
That I wish well. 'Tis pity--
The fitchew, nor the soiled horse, goes to 't
Murder!
Did lack a parallel, yet for all that
He that unbuckles this, till we do please
Of Bolingbroke, covering your fearful land
Grew by our feeding to so great a bulk
What is between you? give me up the truth.
Your uncle Worcester's horse came but today,
Wish chastely and love dearly, that your Dian
This is as strange a maze as e'er men trod
thine ear: change places, and, handy-dandy, which
Of life at once untie: poor venomous fool
As common bruit doth put it.
you will desire, and seven hundred pounds of moneys,
The empress, the midwife, and yourself:
Wanting a hand to give it action?
welcome to Elsinore.
SCENE IV. The same. Before the palace.
Creep into acorn-cups and hide them there.
Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks,
have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse,
Re-enter LUCIUS, with the gown
The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I,
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
And careful hours with time's deformed hand
Till he be dieted to my request,
For sinking under them.
which I would fain call master.
In faith, I gave it to the judge's clerk:
That ever love did make thee run into,
Poor rogue hereditary. Hence, be gone!
And, with her fellow maids is now upon
Yield at entreats, and then let me alone:
To the yet unbegotten sin of times,
Be to content your lord, who hath received you
Enter seven or eight Citizens
Of Naples and of Milan, what strange fish
In such a one as, you consenting to't,
Into my private meditations?
Exeunt Sheriff and Carrier
Or as tie heresies that men do leave
a coward, but he's the very devil incardinate.
With him, my lord, for he hath done me wrong.
Enter a Gentlewoman
Yea, and much more: but I was born so high,
Why, knows not Montague that of itself
Enter EDWARD and RICHARD
Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage.'
Now, fair befall you! he deserved his death,
Be pale: I beg but leave to air this jewel, see!
What dangerous action, stood it next to death,
DON ADRIANO DE
happiness!
My learned lord, we pray you to proceed
soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever
The first service thou dost me, fetch that suit
And brave attendants near him when he wakes,
Exit
Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?
Farewell, great chief. Shall I strike now?
Thy spite on mortal flies:
When scarce the blood was well wash'd from his hands
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul,
Relenting fool, and shallow, changing woman!
To some man else, as this dead man doth me.
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
The instruments that feel.
That made the overture of thy treasons to us,
Exit
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
Of hair-breadth scapes i' the imminent deadly breach,
Thou chidest me well: proud Bolingbroke, I come
Exit an Attendant
As 'tis said, the bastard son of Gloucester.
And with a corded ladder fetch her down,
O, prenez misericorde! ayez pitie de moi!
Sir, he made a chimney in my father's house, and
Or the hard rein which both of them have borne
To tutor thee in stratagems of war,
With Ate by his side come hot from hell,
I like him well, 'tis not amiss. And I was about to
Good Paulina,
other, if she will not discover it.
'Tis but early days.
Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
And we'll consign thereto. Will you, fair sister,
'For that it saved me, keep it, in like necessity--
ANTIPHOLUS
SCENE V. Gloucester's castle.
Therefore we will disperse ourselves: farewell.
body in the house, here will be an old abusing of
Sir, I praise the Lord for you, and so may my
Go give your master this: tell him from me,
by this hand, I will take thee a box on the ear.
Were in his pride or sharpness, if they were,
May be, he hears the king
I do but partly know, sir: it is music in parts.
That they did wake each other: I stood and heard them:
And play the humble host.
Both sides are even: here I'll sit i' the midst:
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
What means your lordship?
Call me before the exactest auditors
The sixth and last, the which the knight himself
Disgracing of these colours that I wear
That shall she, marry, I remember it well.
Enter Serving-men, in skirmish, with bloody pates
Comes forward
As not a soldier of this season's stamp
Though France himself and such another neighbour
Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st
No, that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot
And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.
Now, mother, what's the matter?
As I have read, sir, and the best of them too.
O worthiness of nature! breed of greatness!
her go through the streets, to know, sir, whether
Or Bassianus so degenerate,
Though I am bound to every act of duty,
I'll fee thee to stand up.
Than hate for Silvia that is gone for love.
To counsel deaf, but not to flattery!
There is among the Greeks Achilles, a better man than Troilus.
Your plaintain-leaf is excellent for that.
Exeunt ANTONIO and PANTHINO
come I to my sister, mark the moan she makes. Now
I do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that
To make you answer truly to your name.
Follow me, then. Lord Helicane, a word.
He doth nothing but frown, as who should say 'If you
She cannot deny it.
Then, when you come to Pluto's region,
Enter JULIET and Nurse
After well enter'd soldiers, to return
Love can transpose to form and dignity:
Torment myself to catch the English crown:
I pray you, sir, take patience: I have hope.
Hath cost me an hundred crowns since supper-time.
My father hath set guard to take my brother,
Exit
The other, London.
But yet I'll make assurance double sure,
And speak his very heart.
Exeunt
Exeunt
I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
The incensing relics of it: let him approach,
[Kneeling]  O my good master!
Yet hath Sir Proteus, for that's his name,
Well, Suffolk, thou shalt not see me blush
Our horses!
valiant master would destroy thee! I do not lie.
Do not abuse me.
Vouchsafe, defused infection of a man,
Antonio is a good man.
You have not patience, come.
Then is sin struck down like an ox, and iniquity's
Unto this bar and royal interview,
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
Good uncle, I beseech you, on my knees! beseech you,
Till holy church incorporate two in one.
Diomed,--
It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place
Hail, royal sir!
How to deny them, who to advance and who
Clouds, dews, and dangers come, our deeds are done!
What party I do follow.
earnest of thy service.
understand, the greater file of the subject held the
I long
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM
And basely put it up without revenge?
Have done to this.
Go in to Troy, and say there, Hector's dead:
This is a man's invention and his hand.
Joy, gentle friends! joy and fresh days of love
How! poor? look upon his face, what call you rich?
revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will
O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black!
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, reading a letter, LEPIDUS, and their Train
And guardian of their bones.
That peaceful truce shall be proclaim'd in France,
I know them both, th' other's a jeweller.
Flourish. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, ORLANDO, CHARLES, and Attendants
Like bulls, or rather lions: did't not wake you?
With all my heart.
Consider what you first did swear unto,
Go.
I was then present, saw them salute on horseback,
Be taken from the people.
Above an hour, my lord.
I am as fair now as I was erewhile.
For worms, brave Percy: fare thee well, great heart!
Thou art the ruins of the noblest man
prithee, be gone.
Young lad, come forth, I have to say with you.
In doing this for's country: athwart the lane,
That he is loved of me: I follow him not
Fair Lady Cressid,
An if your highness knew my heart, you were.
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
Mine, fifty talents.
swallowed than a flap-dragon.
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Go to them, with this bonnet in thy hand,
A most arch heretic, a pestilence
Exeunt
Not wake him in his slumber. A beggar's book
The dream's here still: even when I wake, it is
Appear in your impediment. For the dearth,
To keep obliged faith unforfeited!
SCENE II. Before the council-chamber. Pursuivants, Pages,  and c.
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him,
That took some pains in writing, he begg'd mine,
Enter HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA
And, acting this in an obedient hope,
Alas! sir, it is worse for me than so,
Upon my hateful life: another way,
For nought I did in hate, but all in honour.
They are well dispatch'd, now to my daughter's letter:
O sir, we quarrel in print, by the book, as you have
Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle,
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me, let
On you than any, so your hand and heart,
Kills himself
Get thee away.
Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary
That right in peace which here we urge in war,
Go, girl, I cannot blame thee now to weep,
We had a kind of light what would ensue:
Or else, good night your vow!
Like powder in a skitless soldier's flask,
She is not well, but yet she has her health: she's
Look, Lucius, here's the book I sought for so,
I would not spare my brother in this case,
But miserable most, to love unloved?
Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave
Upon her skinny lips: you should be women,
aqua-vitae bottle, or a thief to walk my ambling
Exit ELBOW
Exit
commission and main power, took 'em from me, with
thou to curse thus?
Where now half tales be truths: her love to both
comprehended two aspicious persons, and we would
ANTIPHOLUS
A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments,
Give me the letter, I will look on it.
And say if I shall see you soon at night.
Whom the king hath in secrecy long married,
they'll have me whipped for speaking true, thou'lt
nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
I' the field prove flatterers, let courts and cities be
Were he in favour as in humour alter'd.
With all his covent, honourably received him,
unkindest tied that ever any man tied.
That's two of his weapons: but, well.
For now hath time made me his numbering clock:
Or else to heaven she heaves them for revenge.
me see, let me see, let me see.
I see thy age and dangers make thee dote.
Submitting me unto the perilous night,
And what he craves.
Dispatch, sweet gentlemen, and follow me.
Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains:
whereof being by circumstances partly laid open,
Upon mine honour, he is prisoner.
Thus have I politicly begun my reign,
As Lewis himself: so, nobles, shall you all,
What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new duke?
Take the fool away.
And no worldly suit would he be moved,
Your presence needs must puzzle Antony,
In Hermia's love I yield you up my part,
While she did call me rascal fiddler
Farewell till then: I will go lose myself
This scatter'd corn  into one mutual sheaf,
This is strange: methinks
the third time, I hope good luck lies in odd
gunpowder Percy, though he be dead: how, if he
Come, cousin you shall be the messenger.
Hath an aspect of intercession, which
Talk not of standing. Publius, good cheer,
And you are come in very happy time,
them and a great cause, they should be esteemed
Here, here comes master Signior Leonato, and the
And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain:
She is our capital demand, comprised
And held in idle price to haunt assemblies
But tidings to the contrary
and fifty tattered prodigals lately come from
ACT IV
But stay, O spite!
When all the world is here to look on me?
He'll spare none.
Our captain hath in every figure skill,
I am not valiant neither,
Drawn with a team of little atomies
As, sick and blunted with community,
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
Which makes it tedious, for in all the play
And I will pamper it with lamentations.
O, pity, God, this miserable age!
the blow, unless it swell past hiding, and then it's
How happy then were my ensuing death!
Disbursed by my father in his wars.
So please your grace, the packet is not come
Lucius, I'll fit thee, and withal, my boy,
Anon his Thisbe must be answered,
exceedingly narrowly to thee.
And I will kiss thy detestable bones
And to that end we wish'd your lord-ship here,
Soft music
far, would have made nature immortal, and death
If there be any cunning cruelty
I shall say so to him.
And bid that strumpet, your unhallow'd dam,
Satan, avoid! I charge thee, tempt me not.
Exeunt
We owe thee much! within this wall of flesh
Colour her working with such deadly wounds,
Who, I, my lord I we know each other's faces,
though not personal, have been royally attorneyed
Both in his private conscience and his place,
morning for France. The duke hath offered him
We'll but commend what we intend to sell.
Or blood-consuming sighs recall his life,
Farewell.
A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
Can you remember what I call'd the man?
short-armed ignorance itself knows is so abundant
Who, my cousin Cressida?
Forsooth, a great arithmetician,
That you have tasted her in bed, my hand
What harm a wind too great at sea might do.
The name of Antony, it was divided
And thereupon I drew my sword on you,
Enter TYBALT and others
Throws the dishes at them, and drives them out
To hide us from pursuit that will be made
As he had seen't or been an instrument
By the compulsion of their ordinance
house, next, this is a respected fellow, and his
I speak no more than truth.
And me, my lord, grant me the combat too.
Speak gentle words and humbly bend thy knee,
Good sir, no more, these are unsightly tricks:
Wish me partaker in thy happiness
stratagem.
Moor-ditch?
Gives but the greater feeling to the worse:
Their natures and preformed faculties
That loves his mistress more than in confession,
this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.
hobby-horses must not hear.
Enter TRANIO and HORTENSIO
I assure you, Carthage.
From forth the streets of Pomfret, whom I found
head and a capon, the which if I do not carve most
Nor tongue, to tell me who hath martyr'd thee:
Give fire: she is my prize, or ocean whelm them all!
Her words y-clad with wisdom's majesty,
Good morrow, brother Bedford. God Almighty!
Do you pity him? no, he deserves no pity. Wilt
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
two brace of greyhounds.
What, madam! be dishonour'd openly,
showed what necessity belonged to't, and yet was denied.
They've not prepared for us.
bonneted, without any further deed to have them at
I will add the l'envoy. Say the moral again.
I wonder if the lion be to speak.
To fetch my poor distracted husband hence.
On Thurio, whom your gentle daughter hates,
What's here? one dead, or drunk? See, doth he breathe?
To see her noble lord restored to health,
Yet he spurs on. Now they are almost on him.
Haply to wive and thrive as best I may:
That cropp'd the golden prime of this sweet prince,
Here comes the Briton: let him be so entertained
In this last tempest. I perceive these lords
ACT III
Believe me, there is no such thing in me.
Thou wert better gall the devil, Salisbury:
To say so to my husband.
They could not speak, and so I left them both,
Supported his estate, nay, Timon's money
would she were hearsed at my foot, and the ducats in
No, my lord, unless I might have another for
And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.
Good morrow to this fair assembly.
Exeunt
Madam and mistress, a thousand good-morrows.
Adorn his temples with a coronet,
Our landmen will stand up.
By thy dame Partlet here. Take up the bastard,
He hath arm'd our answer,
Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
I'll get me to a place more void, and there
No, he must not.
For disobedience to your father's will,
And, like a traitor to the name of God,
I will not bandy with thee word for word,
To wife for Edward: if this news be true,
It's sign she hath been liberal and free.
That it may enter Mowbray's waxen coat,
With full accord to all our just demands,
A miracle! here's our own hands against our hearts.
Well, sir, get you in: I will not long be troubled
Make bold her bashful years with your experience,
Let Lion, Moonshine, Wall, and lovers twain
Which will become you both, farewell.
Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf
To the Venetian state. Come, bring him away.
Ithaca full of moths. Come, I would your cambric
Some eight or ten.
Exeunt
Beshrew him for't!
Safer than trust too far:
virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale?
Gramercies, good fool: how does your mistress?
No, if I digg'd up thy forefathers' graves
That shall distil from these two ancient urns,
Fine linen, Turkey cushions boss'd with pearl,
He's sentenced, 'tis too late.
To answer like himself: if Caesar move him,
Why, that to know, which else we should not know.
Toward the king, my ever royal master,
Pray, what is't?
Withal bring word if Hector will to-morrow
fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I
All Kent hath yielded, nothing there holds out
ears a fork'd one!
Tell him, and spare not: look, what I have said
Men are not still the same: 'twas time and griefs
[Sings]
Within this bosom never enter'd yet
Make this his latest farewell to their souls.
His highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able
Nay, more, an enemy unto you all,
But not a sceptre to control the world:
professes not keeping of oaths, in breaking 'em he
To what infectiously itself affects,
My care is loss of care, by old care done,
Cardinal, I'll be no breaker of the law:
In every point twice done and then done double
with vanity. I would to God thou and I knew where a
That shall make answer to such questions
And with that painted hope braves your mightiness:
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
As that ungentle hull, the cuckoo's bird,
shines bright and never changes, but keeps his
The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt,
Alas! what poor ability's in me
Who stood equivalent with mighty kings:
And 'tis but wisdom to make strong against him:
Master Slender hath married her daughter.
Without my stir.
Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.
gentleman till my return.
We must not rend our subjects from our laws,
I told him of the army that was landed,
So had you need:
to himself, by the instruction of his frailty, many
For did I but suspect a fearful man
Exception bid him speak, and at this time
As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts,
O, where is Romeo? saw you him to-day?
Better thou
[Aside]  And yet I must.--Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
Be it as you shall privately determine,
Master Slender had her, or, in sooth, I would Master
I know you joy not in a love discourse.
themselves, they may pass for excellent men. Here
Full of dear guiltiness, and therefore this:
If I break time, or flinch in property
Heavens, what a man is there! a very horse,
And I had his, sir Robert's his, like him,
Ballad us out o' tune: the quick comedians
And the place death, considering who thou art,
Go, call the people:
The grave doth gape, and doting death is near,
My mother is assailed in our tent,
She'll be a soldier too, she'll to the wars.
Make gallant show and promise of their mettle,
Then, sweet my lord, I'll call mine uncle down,
And every drop cries vengeance for his death,
That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st
Of the poor suppliant, who by this I know
thou'lt catch cold shortly: there, take my coxcomb:
Here we: and if to-morrow
'Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man's
And I must find that title in your tongue,
that they come from my niece, and that she's in
Most strangely.
He'll think your mother chides, and leave you so.
cannot tell.
Thanks, good sir:
As ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow:
That which you are, mistress o' the feast: come on,
kindnesses I am most infinitely tied. Reflect upon
very C's, her U's and her T's and thus makes she her
Lose those he hath won.
The which at Touraine, in Saint Katharine's
As the Spirit speaks, SOUTHWELL writes the answer
And poison it in the source, and the first stone
Successful in the battles that he fights,
The rest, that love me, rise and follow me.
By all the reverend fathers of the land
The Ottomites, reverend and gracious,
Till then in blood by noble Percy lie.
To send for Lucius, thy thrice-valiant son,
Ay, sir, and very learned.
person than any of us all.
Room for the incensed Worthies!
For 'tis thy presence that exhales this blood
less. What's next?
Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair,
Would that alone, alone he would detain,
O, 'tis the curse in love, and still approved,
When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief:
O then belike she was old and gentle, and you rode,
The congregated college have concluded
The humour rises, it is good: humour me the angels.
Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
And keep the gate of hell!
Or to her death, according to our law
And revel it as bravely as the best,
What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.
He counsels a divorce, a loss of her
I play the noble housewife with the time
As I am sick with working of my thoughts.
Than in their countenance. Will you hear the letter?
Methought the souls of all that I had murder'd
Now, by this maiden blossom in my hand,
know'st not me.
But, you must know, your father lost a father,
And here's thy hand, in scorn to thee sent back,
Should nothing privilege him, nor partialize
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
he is with that which makes him both without and within.
I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Enter MARK ANTONY with a Messenger and Attendants
If I may have your daughter to my wife,
What, with the case of eyes?
Thus Rosalind of many parts
The will of man is by his reason sway'd,
Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace, and wake in joy,
A sister driven into desperate terms,
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
Therefore doth heaven divide
The moon shines fair, you may away by night:
Ovidius Naso was the man: and why, indeed, Naso,
Talkers are no good doers: be assured
Above their quantity.
Gods are more full of mercy. Must I repent?
the benefit of his dying, a place in the
Fortune is Bardolph's foe, and frowns on him,
Must be thy subject, who in spite put stuff
Villain, not for thy life: take up my mistress'
She's there, and she is yours.
Enter Cupid
Ne'er through an arch so hurried the blown tide,
Well, Brutus, thou art noble, yet, I see,
love to the Moor,-- put money in thy purse,--nor he
Left to be finished by such as she,
To be the post, in hope of his reward.
but the word 'noddy' for my pains.
It warm'd thy father's heart with proud desire
For such a one as leaves a gentleman,
And dare be bold to weep for Buckingham,
I'll note you in my book of memory,
Rough-hew them how we will,--
Puts to him all the learnings that his time
After you first forswore it on the mart:
Eye well to you: your honour calls you hence,
Be done in this and all things! I obey.
Enter PROTEUS
questions, and by them answer.
them talk of a fardel and I know not what: but he
And may diseases lick up their false bloods!
The secrets of his overcharged soul,
With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments,
How? of adultery? Wherefore write you not
The speediness of your return.
This, fellow: what wouldst?
Much good do you, scauld knave, heartily. Nay, pray
The revellers are entering, brother: make good room.
Exit
Beguiled me to the very heart of loss.
And sent to warn them to his royal presence.
Now tell me how long you would have her after you
Fate, show thy force: ourselves we do not owe,
And wrinkled deep in time? Broad-fronted Caesar,
[Aside]  This is his pardon, purchased by such sin
will blow it to pieces, they are so pitifully sodden.
It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture of
I wish you all joy of the worm.
Went he hence now?
I will fashion to fall out between twelve and one,
Unheard, what then?
And will not you maintain the thing you teach,
Peace, ho!
a heavy case, your purse in a light, yet you see how
Revenged may she be on that hateful duke,
Did it to help thee to a better husband.
To-morrow you set on.
Offending charity: if but a dozen French
After your own sense, yea, though our proper son
Exeunt
LEONATUS POSTHUMUS.'
Exit
My foot shall fight with all the strength thou hast,
Of this make no conclusion, lest you say
live. My lady would not lose him for more than I'll say.
Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees
Ah! sancta majestas, who would not buy thee dear?
Italian master, Julio Romano, who, had he himself
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS, with Musicians
Where now his son's like a glow-worm in the night,
heart cannot come by her, in heart you love her,
And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.
Tell her, my love, more noble than the world,
The blood upon your visage dries, 'tis time
Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest
What, pray you, became of Antigonus, that carried
SCENE VII. The orchard in Swinstead Abbey.
As if I had never been such.
of holy bread.
This is strange: your father's in some passion
Safe toward your love and honour.
The certainty of this hard life, aye hopeless
Say that King Edward take thee for his queen?
Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Candy,
That one short minute gives me in her sight:
The news is, sir, the Volsces are in arms.
fortunes: his grace hath made the match, and an
everlasting liberty if I tell you of it, for he
As this that I have reach'd: for know, Iago,
Enter a Messenger
How I might stop this tempest ere it came,
Fly, to revenge my death, if I be slain.
Never so much as in a thought unborn
You have some sick offence within your mind,
Therefore hear you, mistress, either frame
A lover's ear will hear the lowest sound,
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
well for her.
What Trojan is that same that looks so heavy?
My lords, when you shall know--as in this rage,
After the moon. If thou art rich, thou'rt poor,
Authority so weighty.
To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber.
Exeunt
Your highness, lately sending into France,
Even so, or with much more contempt, men's eyes
Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
Whose friend in justice thou hast ever been,
Soft, by and by. Let me the curtains draw.
Frighting her pale-faced villages with war
In that there's comfort.
To kiss and talk to. I'll have the work ta'en out,
Exeunt NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
A worthy fellow,
That he, unknown to me, should be in debt.
Now keep your holy word: go meet the French,
Must bear my beating to his grave--shall join
That I may prompt them: and of such as have,
My lord of Burgundy.
With pity, that doth make me sick. A lady
Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
Under your hands and seals: therefore, go on:
Rest you merry!
And something over to remember me by:
Would all those fatterers were thine enemies then,
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
Exeunt
Have every pelting river made so proud
Do you smell a fault?
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
The peril of our curses light on thee
Promised no less to them?
starved. What, ostler! A plague on thee! hast thou
By and by.
Salisbury, and Warwick,
Until the white rose that I wear be dyed
Come, boy, prepare yourself.
To buy a present for the emperor
Enforced from the old Assyrian slings:
To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper?
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
And from their watery empire recollect
Let them obey that know not how to rule,
Lo, now I now see the issue of your peace.
My lord constable, the armour that I saw in your tent
How does his highness?
Some beast rear'd this, there does not live a man.
Not, indeed:
I would bend under any heavy weight
Upon a parchment, and against this fire
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man,
I will be very kind, and liberal
A goodly humour, is it not, my lords?
have relished among my other discredits.
For he would needs be virtuous: that good fellow,
And vent it for a mockery? Here is one:
Enter CORIOLANUS
Either be gone before the watch be set,
Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks,
Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men,
Thus hath the candle singed the moth.
And let him know so.
Not only, sir, this your all-licensed fool,
I told him what I thought, and told no more
Of this most grievous guilty murder done!
The most convenient place that I can think of
If you are so fond over her iniquity, give her
ACT II
Beyond self-explication: put thyself
Now, as I am a true woman, holland of eight
I do disdain thy courtesy, proud Trojan:
in plain terms, gone to heaven.
And O shall end, I hope.
Which, like unruly children, make their sire
As potent as a lord's. Will you go yet?
Why stops my lord, shall I not hear my task?
Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us:
And justly too, I think, you fear the tyrant,
Only this proof I'll of thy valour make,
Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
Than you should stoop unto a Frenchman's mercy.
And that would woo her. Upon this hint I spake:
white and red.
pale.--I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried, he
Mock not, Enobarbus.
Why, he is so made on here within, as if he were son
Ay, for the state, not for Antonio.
I tender 't here, I do as truly suffer
Worm nor snail, do no offence.
All repetition: let him not ask our pardon,
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
Besides, you know, it draws something near to the
The strong necessity of time commands
more the pity, his white hairs do witness it, but
And raise the power of France upon his head,
I would not have you, lord, forget yourself,
I'faith, i'faith, and both in a tune, like two
Than to make up a free determination
shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and better:
The noble spirits to arms, they did perform
So deal with him as I prove true to you.
office between you.
Let this be done.
Who, I, my lord?
for a search, and away went I for foul clothes. But
Thurio, give back, or else embrace thy death,
Peace, ho! the moon sleeps with Endymion
A shrewd contriver, and, you know, his means,
and gold and silver, is her grandsire upon his
ANTIPHOLUS
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:
Sir, I foretold you then what would ensue:
When she for thy repeal was suppliant,
That I am free of your report, he knows
So in the world, 'tis furnish'd well with men,
There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
I say she's dead, I'll swear't. If word nor oath
Justice, sweet prince, against that woman there!
Well, I'll break in: go borrow me a crow.
And cheer his grace with quick and merry words.
And in his commendations I am fed,
Upon my knee I beg, go not to arms
If zealous love should go in search of virtue,
Bell rings
That you would put me to this shame and trouble,
The king hath yielded unto thy demand:
Senseless Linen! happier therein than I!
And I denied to enter in my house?
leisure have discredited to him, and now is he
Nay, an you begin to rail on society once, I am
Even with such life of majesty, warm life,
And burgonet of men. He's speaking now,
Your eyes drop millstones, when fools' eyes drop tears:
Now by my soul, I would it were this hour.
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice,
Observe degree, priority and place,
The hazard of much blood.
you are--I cannot call you Lycurguses--if the drink
Men give like gods, but when they weep and kneel,
That's the worst tidings that I hear of yet.
That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
To think what follows.
That of yourself which you yet know not of.
Of our own power: what think you of it?
If I say fine, cry 'Fine,' if death, cry 'Death.'
Of mine own way, I know you wise, religious,
We must proceed as we do find the people.
What great creation and what dole of honour
Long have I been forlorn, and all for thee:
Forsake unsounded deeps to dance on sands.
To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester?
I prithee now, my son,
Some Roman courtezan.
Gave Hector a gift,--
prithee, how many boys and wenches must I have?
I am at your grace's pleasure.
Say that he thrive, as 'tis great like he will,
According to the honour of his sender,
Exeunt
Therefore to arms! be champion of our church,
Or else you get no beef of Grumio.
But keep that countenance still. My husband's hand!
How say you, then, would heart of man once think it?
For my part, I am so attired in wonder,
When I was got, I'll send his soul to hell.
It would be much vexation to your age.
report fort, but that he pays himself with being proud.
That will speak any thing?
Do not go forth to-day: call it my fear
He is already named, and gone to Scone
Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
The self-same gods that arm'd the Queen of Troy
Yea, and to tickle our noses with spear-grass to
Five shillings to one on't, with any man that knows
Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,
What ugly sights of death within mine eyes!
That's off, that's off,
Cambio is changed into Lucentio.
The which the gods protect thee from!--may
Produce their bodies, be they alive or dead:
Will't please your highness walk?
Is here attending: her business looks in her
Then walk we forth, even to the market-place,
The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings?
Because you bought them: shall I say to you,
My gown.
You call'd me dog, and for these courtesies
matter. How does your ladyship like it?
A rarer spirit never
Simple of itself, I'll no pullet-sperm in my brewage.
Enter SLENDER
If secret powers
Master, go on, and I will follow thee,
Therefore take with thee my most heavy curse,
But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds,
She gave me for my pains a world of sighs:
To fill King Edward's fame with prisoner kings
My lord so please you, these things further
Combat with adverse planets in the heavens!
occasion, that sall I, marry.
What, are you chafed?
Thou mayst co-join with something, and thou dost,
At Herod's bloody-hunting slaughtermen.
Hang nothing but a calf's-skin, most sweet lout.
Till honour be bought up and no sword worn
How but well, sir? how but well?
Shall we at last conclude effeminate peace?
Do their best office, if they can but stay you
Which, till my infant fortune comes to years,
What is the news?
But those as sleep and think not on their sins,
Myself hath often over-heard them say,
Enter IRIS
So to most noble Caesar.
Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast.
'Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir, which, in my
Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus: 'twas
out of all reasonable match. If thou beest not
Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead, stabbed with a
The colour of her hair: bring me word quickly.
A bribe to pay my sword: I do refuse it,
Enter JESSICA, below
Weak shoulders, overborne with burthening grief,
Villain, I'll make thee safe.
For fear of that, I still will stay with thee,
But straight they told me they would bind me here
Slave!
O, ho, monster! we know what belongs to a frippery.
Re-enter SUFFOLK
Speak to his gentle hearing kind commends.
The other did not so.
Alarum: excursions. Enter TALBOT led by a Servant
If after every tempest come such calms,
Thou dost me yet but little hurt, thou wilt anon, I
In so unseeming to confess receipt
extempore. The prince himself is about a piece of
Before this ancient sir, who, it should seem,
Since riches point to misery and contempt?
catch cold on's feet.
Thou shalt be worshipp'd, kiss'd, loved and adored!
Strike not a stroke, but keep yourselves in breath:
Comes this way to the melancholy vale,
Now took your brother's life, or, to redeem him,
That I may strike at Athens. I'll cheer up
And every one his love-feat will advance
Thus answer I in the name of Benedick,
No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favoured, for
I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair
As amorous of their strokes. For her own person,
Is it fit I went to look upon him? is there no
And so there is: but yet the king hath drawn
As zephyrs blowing below the violet,
I'll be before thee.
With such accommodation and besort
wit that fools have was silenced, the little foolery
For thou set'st on thy wife.
The effects of sorrow for his valiant sons,
Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
A ram, and bleated, and the fire-robed god,
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS, before their tent
his spurs so long. How does he carry himself?
For him, and in his right, we hold this town.
And he does chide with you.
Exeunt
indifferent red, item, two grey eyes, with lids to
look upon his removedness, from whom I have this
Friend Launcelot, what's the news?
My lord of Kent: remember him hereafter as my
To his great master, who, thereat enraged,
daughter of Leonato.
And when in music we have spent an hour,
Enforced us to this execution?
Returns us that his powers are yet not ready
If thou beest a man, show thyself in thy likeness:
The princes both make high account of you,
By mine honour, half drunk. What is he at the gate, cousin?
That desperately he hurried through the street,
So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf,
Peace! the peal begins.
Now my soul's palace is become a prison:
Exit
That eyes, that are the frail'st and softest things,
Over-roasted rather, ready long ago.
That flies i' the purer air!
Infected as her life, she would not live
Holding out gold that's by the touchstone tried,
Murder's as near to lust as flame to smoke:
SCENE I. A sea-port in Sicilia.
to have had so much blood in him.
Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd:
And scout 'em and flout 'em
promised me, as he is a gentleman and a soldier, he
Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds
Thy love's to me religious, else, does err.
To see how God in all his creatures works!
As lean-faced Envy in her loathsome cave:
For what thou hast not, still thou strivest to get,
Forbear sharp speeches to her: she's a lady
Ay, such a place there is, where we did hunt--
Let them not cease, but with a din confused
Whereby we stand opposed by such means
And being enfranchised, bid him come to me.
'Tis not so much worth, but I hope I was perfect: I
What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?
Whose fall the mark of his ambition is.
I tore it from the traitor's bosom, king,
Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold:
It is not so. Ask them how many inches
For every cloud engenders not a storm.
Sir, it is the king's most sweet pleasure and
Speak freely, Syracusian, what thou wilt.
[Sings drunkenly]
And feed his humour kindly as we may,
Why, then, we kill all our women:
Sweet soul, let's in, and there expect their coming.
Say what you can, my false o'erweighs your true.
More than their own! What then? how then?
I'll send those powers o'er to your majesty.
Upon thy certainty and confidence
Which we have not done neither: that, I fear,
First made to heaven, first be to heaven perform'd,
Convert to anger, blunt not the heart, enrage it.
Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
My true preserver, and a loyal sir
That durst disperse it.
well cut,' he would answer, I spake not true: this
With winds that sailors rail at.
Ho! who is within there?
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from
Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me
We have a power on foot, and I had purpose
Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy thane,
To season love, that of it doth not taste!
I could have well diverted her intents,
Up higher to the plain, where we'll set forth
Read on this book,
quoth a'? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I
The presentation of but what I was,
Away!
Snatching ROMEO's dagger
What case stand I in? I must be the poisoner
There's something more would out of thee, what say'st?
Thunder. Second Apparition: A bloody Child
Greater than shows itself at the first view
You would not hear me,
That from her working all his visage wann'd,
Hear me, good madam.
Behold this maid: all corners else o' the earth
under for another.
Enter Thisbe
How would he hang his slender gilded wings,
His perishing root with the increasing vine!
The blind to bear him speak: matrons flung gloves,
Lead forth and bring you back in happiness!
for your honest care: I will speak with you further anon.
Ay, my lord.
I would we had a thousand Roman dames
Rudesby, be gone!
Mine speak of seventy senators that died
meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
From that supernal judge, that stirs good thoughts
With hey, ho,  and c.
That is some satire, keen and critical,
Or should have spoke ere this. Look down, you god,
A twofold marriage, 'twixt my crown and me,
Not fit to govern and rule multitudes,
And doth deserve a coronet of gold.
Displace our heads where--thank the gods!--they grow,
We need more light to find your meaning out.
My dagger in my mouth. Say what thou art,
In whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.
As to the legitimate: fine word,--legitimate!
From Ravenspurgh to Cotswold will be found
Exit
wrangle with mine own honesty. I'll entertain
Mopsa must be your mistress: marry, garlic,
My friend Polixenes: which had been done,
I' the eyes of heaven and to you, I mean,
Stabs him again
Than hands or tongue, her spotless chastity,
Depart again: here, here will I remain
Did nearer float upon the swelling tide,
grant this.
less welcome.
long spoon.
SCENE II. The same. The Presence chamber.
As hating thee, are rising up in arms:
He is an usurer: strike me the counterfeit matron,
Of golden sovereignty, acquaint the princess
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Faster than gnats in cobwebs, but her eyes,--
For sundry weighty reasons.
more in your respect.
I will discase me, and myself present
Speak, cousin, or, if you cannot, stop his mouth
That to your wanting may be minister'd.
I do not now fool myself, to let imagination jade
than a fellow, look you now, of no merits, he is
the same abundance as your good fortunes are: and
Against the walls of Athens.
Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous,
As doth befit our honour and your worth.
The sweet and bitter fool
Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
He plough'd her, and she cropp'd.
The devil.
Catesby!
traitor. Bless thy five wits! Tom's a-cold,--O, do
Between the promise of his greener days
me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
'Tis one of the best discretions of a 'oman as ever
Renowned Titus, flourishing in arms.
The English army, that divided was
Let me hear no more.
The queen of earthly queens: she's noble born,
That has no relish of salvation in't,
O, wonderful!
Within this mile break forth a hundred springs,
Will serve our long inter'gatories. See,
Which has no need of you, be gone:
A good l'envoy, ending in the goose: would you
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
In, boy, go first. You houseless poverty,--
Are richly come to harbour suddenly:
The second and the third, nine, and some five,
May equally determine.
Whose settled visage and deliberate word
I mean it not, I seek you a better husband.
If she be very well, what does she ail, that she's
Be wary then, best safety lies in fear:
Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty,
A soldier, by the honour-giving hand
Enter SHALLOW
As loud as thine rattle the welkin's ear
Come, sir, leave me your snatches, and yield me a
Ay, so I fear, the more is my unrest.
And they have earn'd the waste. Poor Antony!
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
Ere twice the sun hath made his journal greeting
O, for a horse with wings! Hear'st thou, Pisanio?
Confound your hidden falsehood, and award
To listen our purpose.  This is thy office,
Until his ink were temper'd with Love's sighs,
And therefore level not to hit their lives.
I'll devise thee brave punishments for him.
Away with the joint-stools, remove the
My lord, 'tis rated
the duller parts:
Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates,
Yearly three thousand pounds, which by thee lately
Uncertain life, and sure death.
So sure as you your father's. I, old Morgan,
To slay his daughter with his own right hand,
hair and prove a bald jerkin.
deliver you more. How goes it now, sir? this news
So newly join'd in love, so strong in both,
Plant neighbourhood and Christian-like accord
Enter STEPHANO, singing: a bottle in his hand
I do not love to look on.
So that my errand, due unto my tongue,
Look sweet, be fair, become disloyalty,
That youth's a rare courtier: 'Rain odours,' well.
It is impossible that I should die
followers, for it appears by their bare liveries,
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
we'll unkennel the fox. Let me stop this way first.
In your denial I would find no sense,
Must find love's prick and Rosalind.
That you are thieves profess'd, that you work not
Prithee, read i' thy right wits.
I pray you, do.
Now, unto thy bones good night!
The nature of an insurrection.
By interims and conveying gusts we have heard
What peremptory eagle-sighted eye
Erroneous vassal! the great King of kings
For he was fitter for that place than earth.
You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
Before the child himself felt he was sick:
Now, fie upon my false French! By mine honour, in
As doth the sea she lies in, yet the end
or thus. Our bodies are our gardens, to the which
and of the season too, it shall appear.
Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going.
musing: but for you--well, go to.
Enter certain Murderers, hastily
The superstitious idle-headed eld
Things known betwixt us three, I'll write you down:
who, God bless the mark, is a kind of devil, and, to
more of you to myself than you can with modesty
As he will have me, how am I so poor?
epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
Out, hyperbolical fiend! how vexest thou this man!
You whoreson villain! will you let it fall?
By good Euriphile, our mother.
Enter HOTSPUR, solus, reading a letter
Exeunt
was no less than his. If then that friend demand
So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
SCENE III. London. The palace.
how honour would become such a person. that it was
Would long ere this have met us on the way
Thieves are not judged but they are by to hear,
Ay, if Messala will prefer me to you.
If we did think
with scorn, write to him that I love him?'
How now, Prince Troilus! wherefore not afield?
And how the English have the suburbs won.
I am now going to resolve him: I had rather my
rarity redeems him.
Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me,
What, what, sweet-heart?
To you alone.
O, here they come.
Come to me at your convenient leisure, and you shall
Till he faced the slave,
One that was a woman, sir, but, rest her soul, she's dead.
poor with begging.
In very good time: speak not you to him till we
So he be dead, for that is good deceit
Re-enter Attendant, with a glass
And say 'Thrice-welcome, drowned Viola!'
We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready
And what remains will hardly stop the mouth
Little knows this love in me:
With marriage wherefore was he mock'd,
My blemishes in them, and so still think of
What, not a word? Nay, then thou lovest it not,
your honour
Never go home, here starve we out the night.
Lament nor sorrow at, but please your thoughts
By your leave, gods:--this is a Roman's part
Now, like a man of steel. You that will fight,
Why then you must. But hear thee, Gratiano,
March sadly after, grace my mournings here,
Would try him to the utmost, had ye mean,
God send you joy, Petruchio! 'tis a match.
As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance.
She died at night, I'll say so. Who can cross it?
I will not think it.
Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb--
Retiring with HORATIO
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
Thy fortunes. How! that I should murder her?
Creditors? devils!
Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit
I see a woman may be made a fool,
Of what personage and years is he?
What?
Has forgot Britain.
Lie tumbling in my barefoot way and mount
secrets! I'll after, to rejoice in the boy's correction.
Who were the motives that you first went out,
five marks, ready money: marry, then ginger was not
The thunder of my cannon shall be heard:
Was this upon myself: what I am truly,
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, DOUGLAS, and VERNON
Exeunt
O, thou didst prophesy the time would come
Then old and fond of issue, took such sorrow
My lord, wise men ne'er sit and wail their woes,
divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles
me smile, make Hector angry?
Speakest thou in sober meanings?
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
I'll warrant you,
I thank thee for it, and heaven forbid
SCENE IV. The court.
She Phebes me: mark how the tyrant writes.
host, thine Ephesian, calls.
Peace, peace! see further, he eyes us not, forbear,
handle, or use any sword, weapon, or dagger,
I prithee, speak, we will not trust our eyes
It was my breath that blew this tempest up,
What is't? a spirit?
Then have you lost a sight, which was to be seen,
SCENE V. Lord Derby's house.
Take on with me and ne'er be satisfied!
You strike my people, and your disorder'd rabble
is there not besides the Douglas? have I not all
And therefore red, that would avoid dispraise,
To be dishonour'd by my sons in Rome!
Yea, scandalous to the world.
So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe,
will not dispraise your sister Cassandra's wit, but--
As he from heaven merits it, with you
In your bad strokes, Brutus, you give good words:
I say, a husband.
Who is here? What, are you packing, sirrah?
Then never trust me, if I be afeard.
What, did he marry me to famish me?
four-inched bridges, to course his own shadow for a
villain! Somebody call my wife. Youth in a basket!
O traitor Diomed! turn thy false face, thou traitor,
Enter DERCETAS, with the sword of MARK ANTONY
well enough too? what barm can your bisson
Anon!
How blow? how blow? speak to be understood.
Stay, my lord,
You bring me to do, and then you flout me too.
but only my followers' base and ignominious
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day,
Me seemeth then it is no policy,
The hours come back! that did I never hear.
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
And whilst a field should be dispatch'd and fought,
Enter PISANIO
Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:
With most admired disorder.
Enter QUEEN KATHARINE and her Women, as at work
will change, 'twas wont to hold me but while one
Exit
therein the heaping friendships. Of that fatal
He may, my lord, has wherewithal: in him
By his persuasion are again fall'n off,
Come your ways, sir, come.
Exeunt
Most strange!
perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his
Makes me forgetful?
Your faults as they are named. Use well our father:
Lord of thy presence and no land beside?
And many limits of the charge set down
Some there be that shadows kiss,
Be gone to-morrow, and be sure of this,
Directly to his good? Divinity of hell!
sit till you come.
Quoth she, 'Here's but two and fifty hairs on your
Honour and virtue and conversed with such
Then, York, unloose thy long-imprison'd thoughts,
both sides. Farewell: yet for the love I bear my
I cannot be offended with my trade. Please you to name it.
Thou hast amazed me: by my holy order,
Both by the Syracusians and ourselves,
Exit
'Jockey of Norfolk, be not too bold,
Newly alighted, and come to visit you.
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
But that it would be double-dealing, sir, I would
Titled goddess,
Cavaleiro-justice, I say!
Nothing, unless you render her again.
And this soft courage makes your followers faint.
Have not the power to muzzle him, therefore best
As on a mountain top the cedar shows
Is full accomplish'd, for the Roman eagle,
Now play me Nestor, hem, and stroke thy beard,
His name! as if I knew not his name: I have brought
My fault being nothing--as I have told you oft--
And say it is not so.
But I will rise there with so full a glory
Enter a Gentleman, with a bloody knife
untie. Here comes Patroclus.
Call them forth quickly, we will do so.
her,' and where some stretch-mouthed rascal would,
Why, this was moulded on a porringer,
'Tis well, and I have met a gentleman
Lest we remember still that we have none.
Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife:
Rosaline.' I will look again on the intellect of
As when thy lady and thy true love died,
That, if I then had waked after long sleep,
He knows thy thought:
To Adriana! that is where we dined,
Falling in, after falling out, may make them three.
Make large confusion, and, thy fury spent,
My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears,
If we imagine no worse of them than they of
All the Talbots in the world, to save my life!
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
In her days every man shall eat in safety,
And more such days as these to us befall!
Which sounded like a clamour in a vault,
SCENE I. Antioch. A room in the palace.
thy five men, and if I do not leave you all as dead
Holla! stand there!
Thy sting is not so sharp
Touches his friend, which craves to be remember'd
Trumpets sound within
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
To see the statue of our queen: your gallery
Exit OSRIC
Which we disdain should tatter us, yet sought
In the relief of this oppressed child
To the Spirits
Nay, I'll give my word for her too: our kindred,
Dearly my delicate Ariel. Do not approach
Nor ask advice of any other thought
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
Live in thy tongue and heart: old Escalus,
So do I wish the crown, being so far off,
Forbear me.
'Tis well, and hold your own, in any case,
O, he sits high in all the people's hearts:
Which is the duke's own person?
I buy a thousand pound a year: I buy a rope.
I am marble-constant, now the fleeting moon
known well enough too?
Two may keep counsel when the third's away:
I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey,
Sir?
Enter LENNOX
Kisses her
First let me know, and then I'll answer you.
But are you flesh and blood?
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
You'll show a little honesty.
By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight, and could not
This match'd with other did, my gracious lord,
Not as you served the cause, but as 't had been
He never did encounter with Glendower:
There is your money that I had to keep.
O, in a tomb where never scandal slept,
Not to see ladies, study, fast, not sleep!
To try if thou be current gold indeed
partridge wing saved, for the fool will eat no
E'en so thou outrunnest grace. Fool, I will go with
To a most hideous object: thence it came
Let's see once more this saying graved in gold
Is Antony or we in fault for this?
Most noble Timon, call the man before thee.
o' th' ear: or if I can see my glove in his cap,
Set deadly enmity between two friends,
Stanley, he is your wife's son well, look to it.
It is not truer he is Angelo
The spirit torments me, Oh!
either get her ravished, or be rid of her. When she
SCENE V. OLIVIA'S house.
Exit MARIA
me the king's brother-in-law.
To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
For then this land was famously enrich'd
My Icarus, my blossom, in his pride.
And shall the same give pardon to a slave?
the chronicles, we came in with Richard Conqueror.
Aloft the flood, and can give audience
With them he enters, who, upon the sudden,
'Tis but a little way that I can bring you,
By me thou shalt have justice at his hands.
Ay, with all my heart,
Tailor, I'll pay thee for thy gown tomorrow:
custom-shrunk.
She should have bought her dignities so dear.
Yea, what he shall receive of us in duty
Is ruin'd, and the soul of every man
O madam, madam, madam!
your complexion, shall keep the body of it ever
Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit,
And I, as sure as English Henry lives
I take my leave at once.
His liberal eye doth give to every one,
Gave sign for me to leave you: so I did,
my mistress' heart, and did the act of darkness with
As quarrelous as the weasel, nay, you must
Retire, we have engaged ourselves too far:
Was I then to you!
But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:
Grace! not so, friend: honour and lordship are my titles.
From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall and make him
I'll do any thing now that is virtuous, but I
Exit MALVOLIO
I have kept it myself, and see how he goes about to abuse me!
Yea, subject to your countenance, glad or sorry
Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie,
Come, cords, come, nurse, I'll to my wedding-bed,
If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
Are stronger than mine eyes.
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was
Prince Bassianus, leave to plead my deeds:
And first-fruits of my body, from his presence
Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK, train, and LE BEAU
For him, poor soul. The proudest of you all
They fight
At length the sun, gazing upon the earth,
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
As dangerous as the rest. Your time's expired:
Was all the harm I did. These gentle princes--
him, niece: look you how his sword is bloodied, and
And may you prove, sir, master of your art!
it as any man in England. You are afraid, if you see
A mile before his tent fall down, and knee
Signior Hortensio, 'twixt such friends as we
Where Scotland?
Enter another Gentleman
Nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.
They do suggest at first with heavenly shows,
jack, upon an up-cast to be hit away! I had a
Fall all together.
cattle of this colour, would now like him, now loathe
I'll sauce them: they have had my house a week at
Grappling with him
if you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with
Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armour.
I never gave him any:
Nor never did my actions yet commence
Injurious wasps, to feed on such sweet honey
cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a
No, let him die, in that he is a fox,
Our late edict shall strongly stand in force:
Was this fair paper, this most goodly book,
Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter?
Both young and old, one with another, Ford,
A very mean meaning.
honour, if I were but two hours younger, I'ld beat
Hark you, sir, do you know where ye are?
I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot!
It from the bearer, 'tis a sufferance panging
bald-pated, lying rascal, you must be hooded, must
Unto the poor King Reignier, whose large style
Cousin, on Wednesday next our council we
Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell,
Out of this world, tell him, in death I bless'd him,
myself poorer, that I might come nearer to you. We
This sight would make him do a desperate turn,
Enter EDMUND, with his rapier drawn, CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
And what said the gallant?
Anon, sir. Pray stay a little, my lord.
If I do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold
To buy a slobbery and a dirty farm
Enter FALSTAFF
He descends. She ariseth
And from your love I have a warranty
Here in the prison, father,
length again, tarry: but away! go to, have you
But, if thou live to see like right bereft,
Here! what should he do here?
That I were couching with the doctor's clerk.
Noble Menenius,
'Fair' I give you back again, and 'welcome' I have
Sir,
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
That so my sad decrees may fly away,
Well, I must leave her company.
And stalk in blood to our possession?
What is your name?
Wine, wine, wine! What service
Jesu, what haste? can you not stay awhile?
Despite of death that lives upon my grave,
The noble duke hath been too much abused.
Who is that, servant?
The enemy comes on in gallant show,
DON
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
valour. Challenge me the count's youth to fight
lately came from the king, commands the contrary.
prediction, there's son against father: the king
falling out that year on Ash-Wednesday was four
I humbly take my leave.
Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat?
Why, friends, you go to do you know not what:
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
whiteness in them, but I guess it stood in her chin,
And when thy car is loaden with their heads,
My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope
Truly, however else.
They fight, TYBALT falls
I will possess you of that ship and treasure.
Found in his pocket too, and this, it seems,
In the same time 'tis made? I will not.
I know their complot is to have my life,
You that are honest, by being what you are,
Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
Even to Cato's wish, not fierce and terrible
man of my kidney,--think of that,--that am as subject
The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so?
And three or four more of their growth we'll dress
More free than he is jealous.
Or be accused of folly. I shall tell you
Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
Chief master-gunner am I of this town,
A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows,
answered him well.
is sweet. Nay, you shall fight your hearts out ere
Than stamps in gold or sums in sealed bags,
That! what?
free entertainment.
Thus did he answer me: yet said, hereafter
Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
Are strewings fitt'st for graves. Upon their faces.
A drench for sur-rein'd jades, their barley-broth,
Why, man, why?
Will remain hers.
Being skilless in these parts, which to a stranger,
Here can I sit alone, unseen of any,
I am your spaniel, and, Demetrius,
Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains
Now, by the faith of my love, I will: tell me
Enter MARGARET JOURDAIN, HUME, SOUTHWELL, and BOLINGBROKE
But, soft! what day is this?
Hold, here's more gold for thee.
Loved Mall, Meg and Marian and Margery,
Will you not tell me who told you so?
If thou with Caesar paragon again
If want it be not that she is not he:
Die in the fall. But 'tis not so with me:
We are yet but young in deed.
Speak, Rome's dear friend, as erst our ancestor,
What, Sir John Falstaff! Are these your letters, knight?
She's apt to learn and thankful for good turns.
Come, Menas.
Thou kill'st thy mistress: but well and free,
Would he do so, I'ld beg your precious mistress,
Than for his lineal royalties and to beg
I have been in many, but such a night as this,
What is your parentage?
Alas, this is a child, a silly dwarf!
When he intendeth to become the field:
It is enough I may but call her mine.
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
And no conception nor no jealous toy
Romeo.
Most dangerously you have with him prevail'd,
Whom I do love and will do till my death.
Come:
Exit
Since it hath been beforehand with our griefs.
As new into the world, strange, unacquainted:
And by that destiny to perform an act
les mots aussi droit que les natifs d'Angleterre.
Last, that the Lady Anne,
Cousin of Buckingham, a word with you.
What Cressid is, what Pandar, and what we?
Exeunt
without asking my good will?
How fain would I have hated all mankind!
sword, and then we will chop him in the malmsey-butt
The fineness of which metal is not found
into whom nature hath so crowded humours that his
And fighting foot to foot.
Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go?
That calf-like they my lowing follow'd through
We be affied and such assurance ta'en
We shall chide downright, if I longer stay.
The first time ever Caesar put it on,
Now Romeo is beloved and loves again,
Antonio and old Shylock, both stand forth.
Good Sir John, I sue for yours: not to charge you,
And these two Dromios, one in semblance,--
What cheer? how is't with you, best brother?
Not half so bad as thine to England's king,
Exeunt
He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical:
The thicket is beset, he cannot 'scape.
bites his lip with a politic regard, as who should
To those that wring under the load of sorrow,
I caused you write, yet sent away?
Your honour with your form.
This sandy plot is plain, guide, if thou canst
Speak, Salisbury, at least, if thou canst speak:
Most brisky juvenal and eke most lovely Jew,
Second to none that lives here in the city:
bold as to tell you I know the disciplines of war,
Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are.
Enter COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other Senators, JUNIUS BRUTUS and SICINIUS VELUTUS
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back,
Sirs, take you to your tools. You, cousins, shall
I had rather pray a month with mutton and porridge.
A Grecian and his sword, if he do set
down-feather,
Dispatch, I prithee.
For since the birth of Cain, the first male child,
Which swell'd so much that it did almost stretch
Nor tempt the danger of my true defence,
It boots thee not to be compassionate:
One, Richard Earl of Cambridge, and the second,
As lamely as their manners. Lust and liberty
And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.
I would I knew his mind.
For such receipt of learning is Black-Friars,
who know it, I will confess it to all the 'orld: I
And then I comes behind.
To overcome him: in that beastly fury
Ay, and mark thee too, Jack.
The gates of mercy shall be all shut up,
But more when envy breeds unkind division,
That, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  And so, my lord protector,
I love thee so, that, maugre all thy pride,
Not till he hears how Antony is touch'd
Oui, mette le au mon pocket: depeche, quickly. Vere
Give me those flowers there, Dorcas. Reverend sirs,
But poison'd flattery? O, be sick, great greatness,
The prince must think me tardy and remiss,
Where did you dwell when I was King of England?
Writ in my cousin's hand, stolen from her pocket,
Nay then, two treys, and if you grow so nice,
As I am sure they do, bear fire enough
The best I had, a princess wrought it me,
on brambles, all, forsooth, deifying the name of
I know not what the success will be, my lord, but
And that the Earl of Surrey, with the rod.
which is much in a bare Christian.
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
She made good view of me, indeed, so much,
I love you with so much of my heart that none is
With some few private friends upon this coast.
Ay, as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck:
It seems his sleeps were hinder'd by thy railing,
The new-heal'd wound of malice should break out,
My snuff and loathed part of nature should
Lord cardinal, he is your prisoner.
At length broke under me and now has left me,
Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice,
See where they come: we will behold his death.
A black day will it be to somebody. Ratcliff!
Fair fall the bones that took the pains for me!--
By her, in his unlawful bed, he got
She'll find a white that shall her blackness fit.
Shall find him by his large and portly size.
doing eternal: for doing I am past: as I will by
Know'st thou not, Bertram,
And therefore little shall I grace my cause
Thou didst prevent me, I had peopled else
is come after it indifferent well, for there is
Stand in hard cure.
Thisbe runs off
Doth all the winter-time, at still midnight,
Who then conceiving did in eaning time
And fall into our rustic revelry.
And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
Who, falling there to find his fellow forth,
My crown is in my heart, not on my head,
She prized it once.
Enter BASSANIO and SHYLOCK
Have moved us and our council, that you shall
Exit Page
In titles, honours and promotions,
Before the head has any,
Perhaps I shall be rescued by the French,
That I had no angry wit to be a lord.
And will to France, hoping the consequence
And thou a prince, protector of this land,
When I spoke that, I was ill-temper'd too.
No more of him, he is a worthy man: make way, they
What two crowns shall they be?
Or will you blame and lay the fault on me?
Rather to wonder at the things you hear
True is it that we have seen better days,
complain of good breeding or comes of a very dull kindred.
Though he be blunt, I know him passing wise,
And he's at some hard point. Speak, man: thy tongue
It must be so, for miracles are ceased,
Therefore of all hands must we be forsworn.
Cheated of feature by dissembling nature,
What damned error, but some sober brow
With ladies' faces and fierce dragons' spleens,
That may with reasonable swiftness add
Which you say adds to nature, is an art
ACT III
shamed that was never gracious, if killed, but one
No doubt, no doubt, and so shall Clarence too,
Come, I'll convey thee through the city-gate,
Why, very well, then,--
I see you do not mean to part with her,
And mean to make her queen of England.
Why makest thou it so strange?
For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell,
From east, west, north and south: be it concluded,
Which fear if better reasons can supplant,
I am, my lord, as well derived as he,
And ran dismay'd away.
And save poor me, the weaker.
You are deceived, your brother Gloucester hates you.
Take no unkindness of his hasty words:
about him, to signify wall, and let him hold his
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
Let it be so, and let Andronicus
Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me.
take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
Exeunt
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
A greater gift than that I'll give my cousin.
That thou so many princes at a shot
Shall I do any good, thinkest thou? shall I not lose my suit?
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all,
Mine own, I would say, but if mine, then yours,
I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong,
Who should be pitiful, if you be not?
Drum within
Or shall we play the wantons with our woes,
I swear to thee, by Cupid's strongest bow,
You shall.
Ne'er turns the key to the poor.
We have at disadvantage fought and did
My words are dull, O, quicken them with thine!
What, Pindarus! where art thou, Pindarus?
which is as much to say as, let the magistrates be
He spoke, and learnedly, for life, but all
what in the world he is
Is of that nature that to your huge store
That starts i' the way before thee.
pray you, why is it?
O most unhappy strumpet!
not-pated, agate-ring, puke-stocking, caddis-garter,
'Thus saith the duke, thus hath the duke inferr'd,'
Knowing how hardly I can brook abuse?
Against thy entrance.
Under Cominius.
Since when, my watch hath told me, toward my grave
Who, then, dares to be half so kind again?
Re-enter Ghost
An heir, and near allied unto the duke.
Will you prick't with your eye?
No, by my troth, not so much as will serve to
Who's there?
That striking in our country's cause
To your professed bosoms I commit him
He writes me here, that inward sickness--
prayers. Fare you well, my lord, and believe this
Sir, you of Troy, call you yourself AEneas?
with better music.
of his eye, forehead, and complexion, he shall find
As meet to be an emperor's counsellor.
I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:
good compass: and now I live out of all order, out
This servitude makes you to keep unwed.
words to the Lord Lysimachus.
Come, let's fall to, and, gentle girl, eat this:
It shall be so:
Enter Page
O Margaret, thus 'twill be, and thou, poor soul,
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
And though you think that all, as you have done,
Which you deny already: yet we will ask,
Nor let the rain of heaven wet this place,
With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
He hath abused your powers.
know the king is full of grief.
To the last penny, 'tis the king's: my robe,
He were much goodlier: is't not a handsome gentleman?
A devil in an everlasting garment hath him,
Which though myself would gladly have embraced,
Go, take hence that traitor from our sight,
Let's raise the siege: why live we idly here?
Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband:
In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword.
By such despair, I should accuse myself.
Coy looks with heart-sore sighs, one fading moment's mirth
and such-like trifles, nothing comparing to his,
To make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips
Exit
Preposterous ass, that never read so far
At the prefixed hour of her waking,
Forbear the absence of your king:
the lunatic.
Under the lordly monarch of the north,
I find she names my very deed of love,
obscenely and courageously. Take pains, be perfect: adieu.
Bereft and gelded of his patrimony.
To JULIET
true maid.
Alcibiades is banished: hear you of it?
would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh.
Their banners wave again.
For she is with me: no, when light-wing'd toys
Tell me, good fellow, camest thou here by chance,
A sleeping potion, which so took effect
When I am absent, then lie with my wife.
I would most gladly know the issue of it.
No man bears sorrow better. Portia is dead.
And call the noblest to the audience.
Your kindness better.
Enter a Soldier
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
She is not well, convey her to  my tent.
Camest thou by this ill tidings? speak, thou wretch.
Bring in to any of your ancestors.
Hath Doreus prisoner,
I know you. Where's the king?
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him,
To push destruction and perpetual shame
Our human generation you shall find
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
tragedy: and so it is, truly, and very notably
To torture thee the more, being what thou art.
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
knew the service, and that instructed him to mercy.
Enter OTHELLO, IAGO, and Attendants with torches
Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.
of grossness. He's in yellow stockings.
I'll use that tongue I have: if wit flow from't
Signior, is all your family within?
To gather our soldiers, scatter'd and dispersed,
villages, nothing taken but paid for, none of the
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
[Aside to GARDINER]  Give me your hand much joy and
fellowship: I had as lief have a reed that will do
The epitaph is for Marina writ
Lo, here in one line is his name twice writ,
For that's the golden mark I seek to hit:
were to make a monster of the multitude: of the
I am glad to see your honour in good health.
That will I, Pompey.
So I do, sir.
The wager you have laid.
Come, down into the boat.
Bind up your hairs.
Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee?
Ah, Lucius, for thy brothers let me plead.
That nor my service past, nor present sorrows,
am sick, or not at home, what you will, to dismiss it.
O diable, diable! vat is in my closet? Villain! larron!
I'll once more feast the rascals.
The day is broke, be wary, look about.
And understand again like honest men,
More holy and profound, than mine own life,
My gentle Marcius, worthy Caius, and
O sweet Oliver,
The next is, that Sir Thomas More is chosen
Well, more gold: what then?
Your will?
your digestions doo's not agree with it, I would
they are committed, and, to conclude, what you lay
Nay, but swear't.
This civil war of wits were much better used
No, I'll none of you.
Certainly
Then, good my lords, bear witness to his oath.
Exeunt
Resolvedly more leisure shall express:
You must not put another scandal on him,
It is a cause worthy my spleen and fury,
What, Brutus, are you stirr'd so early too?
Wear out the day in peace, but, ere sunset,
Look, here comes one: a gentlewoman of mine,
more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in
Teach not thy lips such scorn, for they were made
Malcolm and Donalbain, the king's two sons,
Sir, I confess the wench.
Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?
And for her sake I will not part with him.
Concern me the reporting.
To come between our sentence and our power,
Or wolf, or both,--for he is equal ravenous
one out of the table.
What is your will that I shall do with this?
Your temples burned in their cement, and
SCENE II. A room in Titus's house. A banquet set out.
And sometime rail thou like Demetrius,
Come to one mark, as many ways meet in one town,
Nothing may give us aid.
'Tis but a man gone. Forth, my sword: he dies.
What name, sir?
Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion.
Will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven.
Do you think I will?
Of what you should forget. Now, good my liege
The thing I have forsworn to grant may never
And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.
Having received the punishment before,
That's Hector, that, that, look you, that, there's a
Exit
The sweet'st, dear'st creature's dead,
The Moor hath kill'd my mistress! Murder! murder!
I shall be counsell'd.
What say'st thou, Henry, wilt thou yield the crown?
Than by the tiger, but when the splitting wind
Enter two Senators with VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA,  VALERIA,  and c. passing over the stage, followed by Patricians and others
Fellow Grumio!
Sent down among 'em, which hath flaw'd the heart
You are such another!
Striking him
For me, be you thoughten
then look for your reward. I'll be at hand, sir, see
And talk to you sometimes? Dwell I but in the suburbs
like a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at
'Tis not his fault, the spark.
Exeunt CARDINAL, SOMERSET, and others
And mock our eyes with air: thou hast seen
Yield not thy neck
Than is the coal of fire upon the ice,
Not truly speaks, who speaks not truly, lies.
And bear with mildness my misfortune's cross,
Signior, it is the Moor.
To stop the inundation of her tears,
And what have kings, that privates have not too,
That any man turn ass,
Pistol him, pistol him.
And is a pattern of celestial peace.
Lysander! speak again:
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
I will not say so, for fear I should be faced out of
All humbleness, all patience and impatience,
Draw, you rascal: you come with letters against the
With those of Norway, or did line the rebel
At all times will you have my power alike?
I will not be denied: sweet heart, look back.
I shall obey his will.
What, angry, Sir Thurio! do you change colour?
O heresy in fair, fit for these days!
Indeed, a tapster's arithmetic may soon bring his
Quick, quick, I pray thee, draw the curtain straight:
Of middle summer, and I think they are given
Signior Antipholus, I wonder much
Either death or you I'll find immediately.
And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.
Thou strokedst me and madest much of me, wouldst give me
Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we!
'In her excellent white bosom, these,  and c.'
How now, gentleman! how is't with you?
Whose unavoided eye is murderous.
A march. Enter EDWARD, RICHARD, and their power
SCENE IV. LANGLEY. The DUKE OF YORK's garden.
I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page,
world. Here comes two of the banished duke's pages.
Servile to all the skyey influences,
Look, what thou want'st shall be sent after thee:
hath made her mistress of the feast, and she lays it
Goblin, lead them up and down.
Ha! what is that?
Found that the issue was not his begot,
May, even in their wives' and children's sight,
You to a love that your true faith doth merit:
I crave the benefit of law of arms.
And therefore apt, because quick.
What's o'clock, think you?
'Twere pregnant they should square between
than the fools' zanies.
gallant king!
Ay, too gentle.
To find ourselves dishonourable graves.
Where are thy children? wherein dost thou, joy?
Exeunt Cupid and Ladies
He is in earnest.
The Countess Richmond, good my Lord of Derby.
I have not kept my square, but that to come
This is thy sheath,
Did see man die! scarce ever look'd on blood,
There rest.
Please you, madam
I beseech your majesty, make up,
observe his construction of it. For this night, to
Enter PORTIA, NERISSA, LORENZO, JESSICA, and BALTHASAR
worship's a wanton! Well, heaven forgive you and all
What got he by that? You have broke his pate with
Against the which, a moiety competent
Still have I borne it with a patient shrug,
Are they not now upon the western shore.
Nor I, ungracious, speak unto myself
freedom: but you are all recreants and dastards,
forward already? What a pagan rascal is this! an
We recommend to you, tribunes of the people,
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Following,--her womb then rich with my young squire,--
For, since the mortal and intestine jars
Or madly think a babe of clouts were he:
The worthy gentleman did lose his life.
[To the Commons, entering]  Sirs, stand apart,
He has no more knowledge in Hibocrates and Galen,
The painter plays the spider and hath woven
No, sir, not I, I came from Syracuse.
I will hear you, Master Fenton, and I will at the
The cardinal's not my better in the field.
Will you be bound for nothing? be mad, good master:
Yes,
My soul shall thine keep company to heaven,
Have you received no promise of satisfaction at her hands?
Pray to the gods to intermit the plague
I'll have some proof. Her name, that was as fresh
Art not acquainted with him? knows he not thy voice?
Something I must do to procure me grace.
supper to him, of purpose to have him spend less,
This night you shall behold him at our feast,
[Sings]
book, and we will afterwards ork upon the cause with
yours: provided I have your commendation for my more
Why, we have galls, and though we have some grace,
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
O most divine Kate!
They'll talk of state, for every one doth so
Not I, honey-sweet queen. I long to hear how they
brazier by his face, for, o' my conscience, twenty
'I know,' quoth he, 'no house, no wife, no mistress.'
You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace.
It shall be so, it shall be so.
That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
High commendation, true applause and love,
The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
But this most cruel usage of your queen,
How was this seal'd?
I do not know
why Brutus rose against Caesar, this is my answer:
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
man! Would the duke that is absent have done this?
I will do't:
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
Enter POLONIUS
I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.
Not?
I have outstood my time, which is material
Signior Iachimo will not from it.
But some uncleanly apprehensions
And he that got it, sentenced, a young man
I am a gentleman.' I'll be sworn thou art,
A year before: it is not to be question'd
nights' watchings.
Friends of my soul, you twain
Thy father, Earl of Cambridge, then derived
Before my perfect honour, swore to Cymbeline
So half my Egypt were submerged and made
The scriptures of the loyal Leonatus,
He would himself have been a soldier.
Even fall upon my life.
Secure of thunder's crack or lightning flash,
Your hearts will throb and weep to hear him speak.
I do not think he fears death.
You are a young huntsman, Marcus, let it alone,
on, then read the names of the actors, and so grow
Or else my heart concealing it will break,
If I would say, 'Agrippa, be it so,'
And yet shalt thou be safe? such safety finds
Would it were mortal poison, for thy sake!
Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
to the wall.
DON
to a point.
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Exeunt severally PRIAM and HECTOR. Alarums
There where my fortune lives, there my life dies.
My people do already know my mind,
A long flourish
Well, 'tis not so, my lord high constable,
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
No, faith, lords and great men will not let me, if
To lash the rascals naked through the world
he vent Trinculos?
With fresh suspicions? No, to be once in doubt
Do meet, as at a fair, in her fair cheek,
Which should perceive nothing but love from us,
Almost, sir: heaven restore me! Would I were
ACT III
Good mine host o' the Garter, a word with you.
I will seek them out.
sprat you shall find him, which you shall see this
Well, I will marry one day, but to try.
Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone.
word for word without book, and hath all the good
Acknowledge mine.
With thousands of these quarter'd slaves, as high
And so should these, if I might have my will.
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
she'll burn a week longer than the whole world.
To soften Angelo: and that's my pith of business
Like the poor cat i' the adage?
You may behold confusion of your foes.
A very drudge of nature's, have subdued me
Warwick and Huntingdon, go with the king,
To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' the air,
With all good grace to grace a gentleman.
Now, for I know the Breton Richmond aims
Install'd lord archbishop of Canterbury.
To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you,
The thrice-victorious Lord of Falconbridge,
I pray thee, moralize them.
One fire drives out one fire, one nail, one nail,
Rise, prithee, rise.
Retreat. Flourish. Enter, with drum and colours, MALCOLM, SIWARD, ROSS, the other Thanes, and Soldiers
RICHARD
What hast thou done? thou hast mistaken quite
As sensual as the brutish sting itself,
Clapp'd wings to me.
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
first propose: his highness hath promised me to do
and my good friend Petruchio! How do you all at Verona?
Or from our masters?
My Regan counsels well, come out o' the storm.
I am no orator, as Brutus is,
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby
lying: it becomes none but tradesmen, and they
Be thou assured, good Cassio, I will do
Do not, my lord.
Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
[Aside]  If 'twere a substance, you would, sure,
I have heard of such. What slave art thou?
I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee,
Was the crown offered him thrice?
He show'd his warrant to a friend of mine:
Sir, I hear you are a scholar,--I will be brief
Shows itself pure, he weeps for what is done.
Stay, countrymen.
Enter ANTONIO
wet me once, and the wind to make me chatter, when
Had baked thy blood and made it heavy-thick,
Re-enter LE BEAU
protest, I have dealt most directly in thy affair.
Exeunt Tribunes
For death remember'd should be like a mirror,
Thou shamest to acknowledge me in misery.
To pardon him that hath from nature stolen
Being lass-lorn: thy pole-clipt vineyard,
Was't you that revell'd in our parliament,
How now! is Somerset at liberty?
Now, by my holidame, here comes Katharina!
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
Aside
Why should I not, had I the heart to do it,
And all my armour laid into my tent?
Would run to these and these extremities:
All causes to the purpose of his speed,
To lighten all this isle? I'll to the king,
Is my apparel sumptuous to behold?
Seeing that death, a necessary end,
You have won a happy victory to Rome,
Lord Stafford's father, Duke of Buckingham,
Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too.
you.
Go thou to sanctuary, and good thoughts possess thee!
Nay, you were better speak first, and when you were
Heart of our numbers, soul and only spirit.
No. madam, he does nothing but smile: your
SCENE III. Another room In the castle.
To dive like buckets in concealed wells,
Our ancestor was that Mulmutius which
The very virtue of compassion in thee,
That I may never have you in suspect.
Where, I confess, I slept not, but profess
And list what with our council we have done.
Then broke I from the officers that led me,
weather continuing, this mystery remained
Will lose his beauty, yet the gold bides still,
Why, after I have cut the egg i' the middle, and eat
Where England?
Look to my house. I am right loath to go:
Persuaded him from any further act:
ACT II
This old moon wanes! she lingers my desires,
word too great for any mouth of this age's size. To
From whence himself does fly? He loves us not,
The wisest prince that there had reign'd by many
That from the prime creation e'er she framed.'
'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly order'd,
If thou dost play with him at any game,
Sink in the trial. Comes his army on?
No, Harry, Harry, 'tis no land of thine,
Of sea and land, which can distinguish 'twixt
For interim to our studies shall relate
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come,
Rape, call you it, my lord, to seize my own,
Of this remove.
Of your profession? Speak, what trade art thou?
Were of an age: well, Susan is with God,
We here attend you. Are you yet determined
Of senators, of praetors, common suitors,
As you, prince Paris, nothing but heavenly business
Killing our enemies, the blood he hath lost--
The gods confound them all in thy conquest,
than a stone. Look you now, he's out of his guard
And fall to reprobation.
He will remain so.
[Reads]  'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
Go thou and seek the crowner, and let him sit o' my
In the dark backward and abysm of time?
How now, monsieur! this drum sticks sorely in your
Now will I to the Goths, and raise a power,
That Cardinal Beaufort is at point of death,
Then once more to your Scottish prisoners.
How now, lad! is the wind in that door, i' faith?
So meet for this great errand. Please your ladyship
Give me your hand: have you no more to say?
Could not have laid such terms upon his callat.
his day. What need I be so forward with him that
Does buy and sell his honour as he pleases,
Speak, or thy silence on the instant is
That we have bled together. Coriolanus
Nothing but that, move still, still so,
here much Orlando!
Soft! here he comes: I must dissemble it.
Pucelle is enter'd into Orleans,
Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me.
My lord?
I am the master of my speeches, and would undergo
A place next to the king.
Myself against the level of mine aim,
Our faith mere folly: yet he that can endure
Well, he may chance to do some good on her:
Because I love you, I will let you know:
The gods throw stones of sulphur on me, if
Bury with those that wore them, these base slaves,
Nature's above art in that respect. There's your
To have her match'd: and having now provided
glory of my overthrow: if I can cross him any way, I
Follow us to the court. Thou churl, for this time,
Tullus Aufidius will appear well in these wars, his
another punishment?
Nay, I dare not swear it.
And wonder of good deeds evilly bestow'd!
Turn, slave, and fight.
And common profit of his country!
Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
True, and it was enjoined him in Rome for want of
Who, much enforced, shows a hasty spark,
His countenance likes me not.
Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might see
This likewise is a friend.
Murder in healing wounds: then, noble partners,
But wherefore art not in thy shop today?
I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
She hath the stones upon her, and the ducats.'
mine: wilt thou serve me?
Be sometime honour'd for his burning throne!
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave,
But what, but what, come they to visit us?
I will bring in the empress and her sons,
ransacked, my reputation gnawn at, and I shall not
Exit
For I have made an offer to his majesty,
Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits,
The sad-eyed justice, with his surly hum,
Whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in,
down, my husband will come into the chamber.
O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
That's a lie in thy throat. I charge you in his
And in their steads do ravens, crows and kites,
And Ethiopes of their sweet complexion crack.
Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief,
Exeunt
epilogue alone.
This cannot be but a great courtier.
duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on
To her let us garlands bring.
He shall be answerable, and so farewell.
To grace the gentry of a land remote,
Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry
Tell her thou madest away her uncle Clarence,
Which likes me better than to wish us one.
What, sovereign sir,
And joint'st with them will be thy slaughtermen.
Yes, they have.
Soul-killing witches that deform the body,
SCENE VI. An open place in the neighbourhood of Swinstead Abbey.
When I shall turn the business of my soul
will carry't.
Where is he now?
and so was he: but we rose both at an instant and
great P's. It is, in contempt of question, her hand.
Agamemnon, how if he had boils? full, all over,
Exit EDGAR
This day I breathed first: time is come round,
The loss, the gain, the ordering on't, is all
Wherein I lived, the greatest prince o' the world,
I have cast off for ever: thou shalt,
I grant, sweet love, that I did love a lady,
All the whole time
As on a pillory, looking through the lute,
The people mutinous, and it is rumour'd,
'Lo, Caesar is afraid'?
They sit and mark
Nothing, my lord.
If not a usuring kindness, and, as rich men deal gifts,
'Tear him to pieces.' 'Do it presently.' 'He kill'd
I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
That so she died, for her physician tells me
and leave us.
SCENE VII. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
To the monument!
To have begg'd or bought what I have took:
If ever any malice in your heart
I doubt not but with honour to redress,
Exit Chamberlain, attended. All rise, and tables removed
her degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit, I
Since summer first was leafy:
O thou eternal Mover of the heavens.
To be a queen, and crown'd with infamy!
farewell, bastard.
Ajax offers to beat him
shall's go hear the vestals sing?
As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer.
That might relieve you!
And give't Iago: what he will do with it
you are the first-born, but the same tradition
Visit the speechless sick and still converse
My lord, I hear none.
What art thou, fellow?
And like her most whose merit most shall be:
Drinks
ACT V
O Mistress Ford, what have you done? You're shamed,
Since thou hast sought to make us break our vow,
stoup of liquor.
I have no other, but a woman's reason,
Thy name so buried in her.
We were never so much out of creatures. We have but
Re-enter SUFFOLK and WARWICK, with their weapons drawn
I will not stay to-night for all the town,
Brought my too diligent ear: for several virtues
With his weak function. How am I then a villain
let thy tongue tang with arguments of state, put
Exeunt OLIVIA and MARIA
I have heard of the lady, and good words went with her name.
Burn the great sphere thou movest in!
Marry, that can Hero,
With pay and thanks, and let's away to London
Beware the ides of March.
But this your minion, whom I know you love,
You are too hard for me.
That hath received some unrecuring wound.
Thou shall present me as an eunuch to him:
Be perdurably fined? O Isabel!
If those that care to keep your royal person
And Hector laughed.
Fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar
With one soft kiss a thousand furlongs ere
For when I was a king, my flatterers
Ha, do I perceive dat? have you make-a de sot of
With their finest palate: and trust to me, Ulysses,
Nay, then she must needs come.
That he dined not at home, but was lock'd out.
My father made in compassing the crown!
supplications to his lordship? Let me see them:
The trumpets sound. Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, appellant, in armour, with a Herald
Must help you more than you are hurt by me.
that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be
no harm, good man,' puts him off, slights him, with
O Setebos, these be brave spirits indeed!
True swains in love shall in the world to come
What was a month old at Cain's birth, that's not five
Ay, ay: O, lay me by my mistress' side.
Whose towers bore heads so high they kiss'd the clouds,
I bade the vile owl go learn me the tenor of the
Prithee, hold thy peace, this is not the way: do
Here comes the queen, whose looks bewray her anger:
No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son,
Be not her maid, since she is envious,
Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm! awake!
Henry had none, but did usurp the place,
A trial, come.
must show fairly outward, should more appear like
But fresher than before: and, as thou badest me,
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
And pick strong matter of revolt and wrath
And so farewell. Katharina, you may stay,
He did ask favour.
He that a fool doth very wisely hit
For I have given here my soul's consent
could not have owed her a more rooted love.
Out, gall!
say I am a magician. Therefore, put you in your
Although we fancy not the cardinal,
I boarded the king's ship, now on the beak,
That of his bounties taste! The five best senses
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
French march. Enter BURGUNDY and forces
Here comes my son Aumerle.
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
To God, my king and my succeeding issue,
The queen this day here holds her parliament,
imaginations of your own heart: this is jealousies.
The peers agreed, and Henry was well pleased
Most heartily I do beseech the court
Would he not be a comfort to our travel?
command you, in his highness' name, to repair to
Send for the man, and ask him.
To recompense your love: doubt not but heaven
Lives in men's eyes and will to ears and tongues
Upon which better part our prayers come in,
Thou'rt a good boy: this secrecy of thine shall be
And be not easily won to our request:
Is strange and peevish.
Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold:
draw a sword to kill himself, which the ladies
Unstaid and skittish in all motions else,
prison. There's but a shirt and a half in all my
A drum now of the enemy's,--
The earldom of Hereford and the moveables
Why, all his behaviors did make their retire
very notes of admiration: they seemed almost, with
Not I, believe me: you have dancing shoes
Borachio.
In such a time nothing becoming you,
While I, their king, that hither them importune,
old a head. I leave him to your gracious
In Normandy, saw I this Longaville:
brother is royally entertained by Leonato: and I
But what a point, my lord, your falcon made,
That Douglas and the English rebels met
That one day bloom'd and fruitful were the next.
Now expectation, tickling skittish spirits,
All these are servants to deceitful men.
Yet have I left a daughter.
For hand to hand he would have vanquish'd thee.
many of these lisping hawthorn-buds, that come like
A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife:
Although I think 'twas in another sense,
For as it would ill become me to be vain, indiscreet, or a fool,
And does blaspheme his breed? Thy royal father
My sovereign liege, I do beseech your majesty
When in the world I lived, I was the world's
Worthy Andronicus, ill art thou repaid
what is thine?
To bear the tidings of calamity.
us. Come, stand not amazed at it, but go along with
Then go successantly, and plead to him.
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.
Protector be, and God shall be my hope,
Take you some company, and away to horse:
next month? and are they not some of them set
Exit HUME
I here could pluck his highness' frown upon you
Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour.
Without or grudge or grumblings: thou didst promise
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
Heavens defend me from that Welsh fairy, lest he
O, that I knew thy heart, and knew the beast,
be won at last,
There is no malice in this burning coal,
Hath given me some worthy cause to wish
admiration? Impart.
But, since you make your pleasure of your pains,
Hymen from heaven brought her,
This 'tis:
That sings with piercing, do not touch my lord.
Is't lost? is't gone? speak, is it out
And her prosperities so largely taste,
gentleman or other shall 'scape a predestinate
words him, I doubt not, a great deal from the matter.
of them, if th' other two be brained like us, the
What does he mean? since death of my dear'st mother
Unable to support this lump of clay,
Who can be patient in such extremes?
Or rather a disease that's in my flesh,
You must prepare to fight without Achilles.
I would forgive him, for if he love me to madness, I
[Aside to ISABELLA]
Fair maid, send forth thine eye: this youthful parcel
Whose sovereignty so oft thou hast preferr'd
Exeunt
He was not sad, for he would shine on those
And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
What I believe I'll wail,
Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
They are worn, lord consul, so,
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
Enter two Servants of Varro, and the Servant of  LUCIUS, meeting TITUS, HORTENSIUS, and other Servants of TIMON's creditors, waiting his coming out
Say you have wrong'd her, sir.
Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena,
Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
delivered the matter well, when I find the ass in
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Makes the night morning, and the noon-tide night.
You must think, if we give you any thing, we hope to
You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames
O! thy vile lady!
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
The sole drift of my purpose doth extend
O Caesar,--
Where have you left the money that I gave you?
So soon as I can win the offended king,
On a day--alack the day!--
What is this?
Would own a name too dear. O, that the gods
Come to our tent till we have done our conference.
Now thrive the armourers, and honour's thought
I'ld drive ye cackling home to Camelot.
But release me from my bands
What custom wills, in all things should we do't,
To DUKE SENIOR
His honour and myself are at the one,
A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life,
As, an't please heaven, he shall not--they
Enter GONERIL
excellent at faults.
The element itself, till seven years' heat,
'Tis my deserving, and I do entreat it.
Great Glamis! worthy Cawdor!
Exit
[Aside to MALCOLM]  What should be spoken here,
Debosh'd on every tomb, on every grave
As reek o' the rotten fens, whose loves I prize
'Twixt fair and foul?
Go to your rest, at night we'll feast together:
Therein thou wrong'st thy children mightily.
Not like to me, or any of my kin,
The arm of mine own body, and the heart
To a lady of France that he call'd Rosaline.
leave you one o' these days: and I have a rheum
Mercy on me! I have a great dispositions to cry.
the letter?
With such a heady currance, scouring faults
That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin,
Losing a mite, a mountain gain.
Her heart is but o'ercharged, she will recover:
things should be: all difficulties are but easy
In Cressid's love: thou answer'st 'she is fair,'
In this bare island by your spell,
What, was he sad or merry?
I see thy grieved heart: thy sad aspect
We'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats.
Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high,
for that: and yet, to say the truth, reason and
And yet I would I had o'erlooked the letter:
His life was gentle, and the elements
A Clifford! a Clifford! we'll follow the king and Clifford.
I have, 'tis ready.
My Lord Chatillon may from England bring,
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face.
Let us hear, sweet Bottom.
I'll prove the prettier fellow of the two,
At least we'll die with harness on our back.
And that great minds, of partial indulgence
Having vainly fear'd too little. Away with him!
I'll seek them.
And they shall be themselves.
Trimm'd up your praises with a princely tongue,
Normans, but bastard Normans, Norman bastards!
Come, let us in, and with all speed provide
But this exceeding posting day and night
The soul and body rive not more in parting
Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.
Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death
Brave peers of England, pillars of the state,
Mean you his majesty?
Upon this hope, that you shall give me reasons
Did I not tell you she was innocent?
Though light, take pieces for the figure's sake:
Unless you have the grace by your fair prayer
It was myself, my brother and his son,
Of brothers' temper, do receive you in
Go seek him out, speak fair, and bring the body
Crouch for employment. But pardon, and gentles all,
No more, and by a sleep to say we end
Shoots buck and doe:
Their several kinds have done. My high charms work
Be't not in thy care, go,
And I for Ganymede.
Use mercy to them all. For us, dear uncle,
Upon the crown o' the cliff, what thing was that
O dainty duck! O dear!
horse in Padua to begin his wooing that would
A retreat sounded
Let us with care perform his great behest.
Come, come, we know your meaning, brother
O noble prince, I can discover all
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Petruchio, go thy ways, the field is won.
nobleman, and she sent him away as cold as a
So thou wilt let me live, and feel no pain.
Exeunt ROSALINE and KATHARINE
friend, as thou usest him, and thy sworn enemy,
Then homeward every man attach the hand
Remains the censure of this hellish villain,
Could I with boot change for an idle plume,
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out
Men daily find it. Get thee away, and take
And I'll be sworn I have power to shame him hence.
A villain.
I shall obey, my lord.
A plain kerchief, Sir John: my brows become nothing
But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger:
Howe'er repented after.
three-and-twenty, or that youth would sleep out the
Shall Kate be my wife?
Nor I neither by this heavenly light,
Bootless home and weather-beaten back.
If it could so roar to me: I cut off's head,
Master, let me take you a buttonhole lower. Do you
It fits, when such a villain is a guest:
I'll mend it with a largess. Take your paper too,
SCENE I. A church.
God forgive my sins, and pardon thee!
If ever I did dream of such a matter, Abhor me.
Is it a man?
And let my officers of such a nature
If I would but go to hell for an eternal moment or so,
That ring's a thousand proofs.
To give the judgment.
Romeo, away, be gone!
despite of a fall. But, turning these jests out of
obstruction?
Which will require your answer, you must take
Upon these words I came and cheer'd him up:
Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief,
Was I for this nigh wreck'd upon the sea
Making that idiot, laughter, keep men's eyes
And Eglamour is in her company.
Wherein my hope is I shall so prevail
Enter HECTOR, TROILUS, AJAX, AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, MENELAUS, and DIOMEDES, with lights
Then take my king's defiance from my mouth,
And in the porches of my ears did pour
Exeunt Goths, with AARON. Flourish within
Their powers are marching unto Paris-ward.
Marry, that's a bountiful answer that fits all
truer than those that are so washed. How much
Lives in these touches, livelier than life.
Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
Deny your asking: take your choice of those
Nay, but, Ophelia,--
But let me hear the letter of your friend.
As I am woman,--now alas the day!--
Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served
With any terms of zeal, wanted the modesty
That holds this present question in the court?
To render them redoubted! Look on beauty,
There shall not at your father's house these
I idly heard, if true or false I know not.
Shout
Farewell, my lord. Light to my chamber, ho!
Your Caesar's father oft,
So hangs, and lolls, and weeps upon me, so hales,
And as wicked as his wife?
Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly.
In cradle-clothes our children where they lay,
So please your grace, the Prologue is address'd.
which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
That we may call it early by and by.
Turning with splendor of his precious eye
It yearns me not if men my garments wear,
Enter LAERTES, armed, Danes following
wits and bearing too? A pox o' your bottle!
Than thou hast to deny 't. Come, let us go:
Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still,
You should be lord ambassador from the emperor,
Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense,
will be considered.
Without the sensible and true avouch
Singing
Be it so! Amen!
Let us deal justly.
grave's this, sirrah?
And I do with an eye of love requite her.
Perhaps he sees it not, or his good nature
The bosom of my conscience, enter'd me,
You came in arms to spill mine enemies' blood,
Follow your spirit, and upon this charge
Alack, for pity!
Do as I bid thee: there's no more to say,
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups,
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
But for some other reasons, my grave sir,
To choose from forth the royal blood of France,
Thou art Hermione, or rather, thou art she
They turn to vicious forms, ten times more ugly
More wonderful, when angels are so angry.
Sweet Portia,
I have consider'd well his loss of time
Do, do.
Pray, let us go.
The hunt is up, the morn is bright and grey,
Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.
to the country maid Jaquenetta:
That dost this habitation, where thou keep'st,
Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn,
They have put forth the haven
While she was in her dull and sleeping hour,
What, up and down, carved like an apple-tart?
Look to your babe, my lord, 'tis yours:
the sun of England prove a thief and take purses? a
In God's name what are you, and how came you hither?
Ay, Celia, we stay'd her for your sake,
To-day shalt thou behold a subject die
With language that would make me spurn the sea,
You'll not confess, you'll not confess.
Exit CURIO. Music plays
Your servant's servant is your servant, madam.
Your features! Lord warrant us! what features!
There left me and my man, both bound together,
Where they're extended, who, like an arch,
up my legs sometime, yet I made a shift to cast
not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my
What is 't you say? the life?
Will furnish me. But soft! how many months
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
Will't please your lordship drink a cup of sack?
As he shall like, to quit me: urge it thou:
Come, I must bring you to our captain's cave:
When beggars die, there are no comets seen,
So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive
Come hither, neighbour Seacole. God hath blessed
In characters as red as Mars his heart
Music
it in your chamber, and not know who left it there!
You that love me and Warwick, follow me.
From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause,
Turn from their office to black funeral,
By smiling pick-thanks and base news-mongers,
Graceless! wilt thou deny thy parentage?
like myself in this, let him be whipped that first
A world by itself, and we will nothing pay
Thou hast not loved:
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
The hand could pluck her back that shoved her on.
How holily he works in all his business!
Even at thy teat thou hadst thy tyranny.
are in love or that you will be in love or that you
present itself, a devilish knave. Besides, the
The emperor himself and all thy foes,
On that advantage, bought with such a shame,
False fiend, avoid!
I have said.
Nor met with fortune other than at feasts,
name out of his heart, and turn him going.
Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves?
Lend me thy cloak, Sir Thomas. Brothers both,
Tillyvally. Lady!
comes, and again, catched it again, or whether his
She conjures: away with her! Would she had never
Rather than die at once!--taught me to shift
Thou foul accursed minister of hell!
For idleness itself.
He, like a puling cuckold, would drink up
I hear none, madam.
Consorted with that harlot strumpet Shore,
He was a gentleman on whom I built
Yet once again, to make us public sport,
Nor cease his flow of riot: takes no account
Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
How in our voiding lobby hast thou stood
Which labour'd after him to the mountain's top
going, forsooth: the business is for Helen to come hither.
Either heaven with lightning strike the
Reprove my allegation, if you can,
Some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen,
he dead, bully stale? is he dead?
Get undescried.
That with your strange encounter much amazed me,
And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse
When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails
Besides, the seeing these effects will be
and undo a great deal of honoured! Servilius, now,
That you shall stifle in your own report
We'll sift this matter further.
To any count, to all counts, to what is man.
During the life of this old majesty,
He does fair justice, if he give me way,
And, as he stoop'd again to take it up,
I know you could not lack, I am certain on't,
Concerning his imprisonment, was rather,
O Caesar! these things are beyond all use,
A cry of hounds and horns, winded in a peal. Enter  SATURNINUS, TAMORA, BASSIANUS, LAVINIA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, and Attendants
this noise?
Now trust me, madam, it came hardly off,
For I spake to you for your comfort, did desire you
Than an unstringed viol or a harp,
Though you untie the winds and let them fight
It is no other: show your wisdom, daughter,
Nettled and stung with pismires, when I hear
Rich tire about you, should at these early hours
words, and therefore I will say nothing: I thank
him by the year, and let him abide here with you, if
of virtue, answer me.
it was mere foolery, I did not mark it. I saw Mark
and wine and metheglins, and to drinkings and
wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy, let him
How hast thou purchased this experience?
religion in you, that you fear.
Lead me to the revolts of England here.
is more than the wit, for the greater hides the
Within the fore-rank of our articles.
With many hundreds treading on his heels,
Too late? why, no, I, that do speak a word.
Haste you again.
and all brokers-between Pandars! say, amen.
I would have had you put your power well on,
Enter CLOTEN
'Poor forlorn Proteus, passionate Proteus,
Of what it is not. Then, thrice-gracious queen,
Say, if I do, the laws are mine, not thine:
of him, Emilia, though he be thy husband. How say
The people's magistrates.
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Full fourteen weeks before the course of time.
Then let not him be slander'd with revolt.
This is not generous, not gentle, not humble.
This done, see that you take no longer days,
Tut, I have lost myself, I am not here,
To-night, to-night. But, mistress, do you know the
How lost thou them? Thy name, my most kind virgin?
your worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
Office and custom, in all line of order,
He talks of wood: it is some carpenter.
conscience, this one christening will beget a
Jesters do oft prove prophets.
This juggling witchcraft with revenue cherish,
Now you see, sir, how your fooling grows old, and
Who, with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour,
Let me shake thy hand,
SCENE II. Lawn before the Duke's palace.
There to remain.
Hark, the duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.
So now, fair prince of Troy, I bid good night.
I cannot delve him to the root: his father
DON
Can do no more.
By sea, by sea.
Upbraid my falsehood! when they've said 'as false
Excellent! why, this is the best fooling, when all
Amen, amen! but come what sorrow can,
Exeunt
Enter HECTOR, armed, AENEAS, TROILUS, and other Trojans, with Attendants
Your brother did employ my father much,--
Tell us what Sinon hath bewitch'd our ears,
To go to Paris?
More pious debts to heaven than in all
I conjure only but to raise up him.
Cleave in the midst, and perish.
Thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him,
My playfellow, your hand, this kingly seal
doubt not but I shall find them tractable enough.
The happy tidings of his good escape.
And let the wise man fly:
To whom shouldst thou give it?
I thus would play and trifle with your reverence:
And, in reguerdon of that duty done,
We wish it ours again, the present pleasure,
Nor the soles of her shoe?
About his neck, yet never lost her lustre,
As I will fashion it, shall happily meet,
May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit.
What, will you go unto the Tower, my lord?
Ecstasy!
monster! when 's god's asleep, he'll rob his bottle.
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And, for I should not deal in her soft laws,
The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy
The mayor towards Guildhall hies him in all post:
As doth a rock against the chiding flood,
A parley with the Duke of Burgundy!
His soldiers lurking in the towns about,
their courage
Shall lose a hair through Bassanio's fault.
That's your device.
O, confound the rest!
My father was a Mortimer,--
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
That it was yours. Now, for conspiracy,
division of the kingdom, it appears not which of
To the Fool
Proteus, I thank thee for thine honest care,
It lies as sightly on the back of him
You say you do not know the lady's mind:
Have seal'd thy full desire.
Dispatch the most convenient messenger:
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
A fustian riddle!
Which we ourselves have plough'd for, sow'd,
should do for clients her fitment, and do me the
Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,
Of your precedent lord, a vice of kings,
The natural fool of fortune. Use me well,
We charge you, that you have contrived to take
Of dire combustion and confused events
And welcome home again discarded faith.
Now, sirs, have you dispatch'd this thing?
For private quarrel 'twixt your duke and him,
Orlando doth commend him to you both,
The chapel where they lie, and tears shed there
He bores me with some trick: he's gone to the king,
And bear the name and port of gentlemen?
Each minute teems a new one.
I can bear my part, you must know 'tis my
Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter--
You so remain.
So dreadful will not be as was his sight.
Look, who kneels here! Flesh of thy flesh, Thaisa,
Madam,
Where is my lord of Gloucester?
I will lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring,
Beyond the trick of others. This Polydore,
Lord Clifford and Lord Stafford, all abreast,
Enter EXTON, with persons bearing a coffin
To be thy lord and master: seek the king,
Disdaining me and throwing favours on
Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.
Both of Galen and Paracelsus.
Nor no witchcraft charm thee!
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
Now sleep y-slaked hath the rout,
Pray, walk awhile.
Is goads, thorns, nettles, tails of wasps,
for mine honour, and have respect to mine honour, that
Although the last, not least, to whose young love
Gaoler, look to him: tell not me of mercy,
Was parmaceti for an inward bruise,
When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper
She that doth call me husband, even my soul
estate upon you, and here live and die a shepherd.
For hither we have broken in by force.
Look not upon me, for thine eyes are wounding:
And I am lowted by a traitor villain
Yes, indeed do I, fellow.
His grace is at Marseilles, to which place
Of your accustom'd diligence to me.
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
Most putrefied core, so fair without,
Left and abandon'd of his velvet friends,
Not very well, but I have met him oft,
The one is filling still, never complete,
Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,
As with the meat, some undeserved fault
He came but to be Duke of Lancaster,
Enter SIR ANDREW
turn witch.
There is much care and valour in this Welshman.
This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.
Exit CINNA
Ay, my lord: and fear
As you, my lord, or any Scot that this day lives:
Shall I not lie in publishing a truth?
Take or lend. Ho! No answer? Then I'll enter.
ACT V
to write to one that she knew would flout her, 'I
The thane of Cawdor lives: why do you dress me
But sorrow, that is couch'd in seeming gladness,
Exit EDGAR
So, this is Tyre, and this the court. Here must I
reports, but the best is, he lives not in them.
Deadly divorce step between me and you!
Some touches of remorse? or is your blood
Re-enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
Let him alone, or so many so minded,
And for that cause I trained thee to my house.
A second time I kill my husband dead,
And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
These My lips,
That thou restrain'st from me the duty which
All is well ended, if this suit be won,
And if I do not by thy hand, thou art
of Queen Hermione's, her jewel about the neck of it,
By my troth, thou hast an open hand. These wise men
Or those that be not, would they might seem none!
Beware you lose it not: for us, if you please
But are not some whole that we must make sick?
Exit
But if you would consider the true cause
With man's blood paint the ground, gules, gules:
Let every soldier hew him down a bough
fight a blow. O Lord, my heart!
Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him, fellows,
SCENE VI. London. Cannon Street.
As I dare take a serpent by the tongue:
I was, unhandsome warrior as I am,
Her favour turns the fashion of the days,
My father, king of Spain, was reckon'd one
France et vous etes mienne. It is as easy for me,
duke will drink under this tree. He hath been all
Good lady,
All that you meet are thieves: to Athens go,
Art turn'd the greatest liar.
Betwixt myself and her, which was broke off,
When mistresses from common sense are hid,
Exeunt
sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?
a million: thou owest me thy love.
Sir Toby to look to me! This concurs directly with
Voiced so regardfully?
He shall be endured:
SCENE III. Tyre. An ante-chamber in the palace.
Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's
To-morrow, cousin Percy, you and I
Well, I will go,
I shall grow jealous of you shortly, Launcelot, if
speakest well of fools!
Even as she speaks, why, their hearts were yours,
That you have but slumber'd here
That ever living man of memory,
Is not his grace protector to the king?
Enter the DUCHESS OF YORK, with the two children of CLARENCE
My gracious lord, here in the parliament
Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you,
Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly,
Ay, that I am not thee.
and so dance out the answer. For, hear me, Hero:
I understand not, madam.
No, no, I am as ugly as a bear,
trust my expectation.
That won three fields of Sultan Solyman,
That can sing both high and low:
Injurious duke, that threatest where's no cause.
little finger, there is some hope the ladies of
shortened, for she has been too long a talking of,
Enter Shepherd, Clown, MOPSA, DORCAS, and others, with POLIXENES and CAMILLO disguised
banish Bardolph, banish Poins: but for sweet Jack
In an ungracious mouth is but profane.
I have told your lordship already, the stocks carry
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  When he was made a shriver,
Are brought your eyes, what need speak I?
That in these several places of the city
She said so: I must needs report the truth.
An't please your grace, Sir Thomas Bullen's daughter--
To LUCIO
very competent injury: therefore, get you on and
He has a son, who shall be flayed alive, then
Right in thine eye. Away, my friends! New flight,
Who being accused a crafty murderer,
Exeunt TROILUS and DIOMEDES, fighting
look about you: security gives way to conspiracy.
I see this hath a little dash'd your spirits.
Being forbid? There, take you that, sir knave.
Enter CORIOLANUS, VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, MENENIUS, COMINIUS, with the young Nobility of Rome
Thy beagles with thee.
Thine being but a moiety of my grief,
Too hideous to be shown. Thou dost mean something:
Ay, that's my boy! thy father hath full oft
And, let your father make her the assurance,
Ay, but the doors be lock'd and keys kept safe,
Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son,
I will tell you
to prison was worth five thousand of you all.
A custard-coffin, a bauble, a silken pie:
What ring was yours, I pray you?
calling? Look to the guests within.
Between you I shall have a holy head.
They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
That frights the maidens of the villagery,
fall to you upon this, more than thanks and good
Is doom'd a prisoner by proud Bolingbroke:
This house is little: the old man and his people
With a swain's wearing, and me, poor lowly maid,
They were again together: you have done
With goodly shape and by your own report
What, all amort? Rouen hangs her head for grief
was ill killed. How doth good Mistress Page?--and I
Five year! by'r lady, a long lease for the clinking
come into any room in a tap-house, but I am drawn
Shall set thee on triumphant chariots and
themselves all men of hair, they call themselves
I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
She will indite him to some supper.
Be what they will, may stand forth face to face,
But by fair sequence and succession?
Her words do show her wit incomparable,
If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess
'Break up the senate till another time,
of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish
We are all undone, unless
The king and all the peers are here at hand.
Measures of wheat to Rome, this 'greed upon
Rough quarries, rocks and hills whose heads touch heaven
Who, Monsieur Veroles?
To Pericles thy father.
And I the elder and more terrible:
Their fruits of duty: superfluous branches
Give the word.
Whose overweening arm I have pluck'd back,
'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled:
I say 'your city,' to his wife and mother,
The case stands with her, do't as from thyself.
Your children's children quit it in your age.
Ay, madam.
Marry, sir, lullaby to your bounty till I come
from my brother, that I have not all o'er-read,
Exit Haberdasher
turn you out of doors, never trust me.
Give me thy hand, Kate: I will unto Venice,
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
For shame, be friends, and join for that you jar:
So I believe, but Thurio thinks not so.
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and
England, for itself.
Locking the door
of fashion: richly suited, but unsuitable: just
Whilst what we have kill'd be cook'd.
With spur we beat an acre. But to the goal:
For half thy wealth, it is Antonio's,
May I be bold to ask at what that contains,
And all the wealthy kingdoms of the west,
If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one
Preach some philosophy to make me mad,
I will, my lord.
And in compassion weep the fire out,
But give me leave to try success, I'ld venture
Enter OXFORD and SOMERSET
What, sir?
Lucilius' Servant	Flaminius! Sir, a word: pray, is my lord ready to
Fair glass of light, I loved you, and could still,
And, whilst we breathe, take time to do him dead.
As hath been belch'd on by infected lungs.
Even to Augustus' throne.
And never in my life, I do protest,
When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
To the disgrace and downfall of your house:
Of whom, even to the state's best health, I have
But do it when the next thing he espies
How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?
ACT IV
Exit PRINCE HENRY
From heart of very heart, great Hector, welcome.
How is the king employ'd?
Pace 'em not in their hands to make 'em gentle,
And I for Rosalind.
To Verona.
Who from the sacred ashes of her honour
This good man,--few of you deserve that title,--
Your will be done: this must my comfort be,
Some say he's mad, others that lesser hate him
with it and swear it was the blood of true men. I
died: they say he made a good end,--
You do their work, and they shall have good luck:
Your highness shall repose you at the Tower:
The envious barking of your saucy tongue
It is not possible, it cannot be,
well, another virtuous, yet I am well, but till all
Our worser thoughts heavens mend! Alexas,--come,
This admiration, sir, is much o' the savour
What! he did not?
A substitute shines brightly as a king
To what I shall unfold.
No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
Of the self-same metal that my sister is,
Glory grows guilty of detested crimes,
To consummate this business happily.
you think is his name?
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
Exit
I could put thee in comfort. Not by two that I know:
Exit
For the rain it raineth every day.
and prabbles, and desire a marriage between Master
'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which
Pay him the due of honey-tongued Boyet.
That, when thou comest to kneel at Henry's feet,
Following the mirror of all Christian kings,
Well, this is the forest of Arden.
Which twain have brought her to.
Where heaven He knows how we shall answer him,
The rather, for I earnestly beseech,
I'll in to counsel them, haply my presence
If, after two days' shine, Athens contain thee,
Happily you may catch her in the sea,
Unless some fit or frenzy do possess her:
And, madam, these for you, from whom I know not.
This being granted in course,--and now follows
thou me yet?
Let's do't, I pray, and I this morning know
What are these faces?
As place Duke Humphrey for the king's protector?
grave-maker?
This is the point.
And yet, alas, now I remember me,
Gloucester,
The cause of our expedience to the queen,
Almost impregnable, his old ears deaf,
Good madam, pardon me!
To signify unto his majesty
for I know Anne's mind as well as another does. Out
What's this to my Lysander? where is he?
By such a lowly vassal as thyself.
How is't, my soul? let's talk, it is not day.
So clear, so shining and so evident
thee, out with't, and place it for her chief virtue.
For beauty that made barren the swell'd boast
Bid her devise
Southampton.
The winds of March with beauty, violets dim,
He would have dropp'd his knife, and fell asleep
Or failing so, yet that I put the Moor
A servant that he bred, thrill'd with remorse,
Exeunt Clown, FABIAN, SIR TOBY BELCH, and SIR ANDREW
I have no great devotion to the deed,
[Kneeling]  Pardon, sweet father.
Might be the be-all and the end-all here,
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
prove fools, and I, that am sure I lack thee, may
Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure
True, uncle.
Of this oppressed boy: this is thy eld'st son's son,
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not,
Comparisons are odorous: palabras, neighbour Verges.
Together with a recompense more fruitful
So just is God, to right the innocent.
So his mind cankers. I will plague them all,
Against acquaintance, kindred and allies:
For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.
Descends
Exit
Go to, go to!
And pay them when you part.
husband had him of. What do you call your knight's
Now, by my life, this day grows wondrous hot,
Content, my liege! yes, but that I am prevented,
To set his sense on the attentive bent,
Dear my brother,
Promising to bring it to the Porpentine,
Stand up, lord.
And if thy poor devoted suppliant may
Although this lord of weak remembrance, this,
Let me ne'er hope to see a chine again
To greet him and to give him comforts. Sir,
to Lord Lucullus you: I hunted with his honour
That long time have been barren.
Be gone,
This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
Enter at one door, HORNER, the Armourer, and his  Neighbours, drinking to him so much that he is drunk,  and he enters with a drum before him and his staff  with a sand-bag fastened to it, and at the other  door PETER, his man, with a drum and sand-bag, and 'Prentices drinking to him
O Buckingham, take heed of yonder dog!
Not fate, obedience, nor the hand of Mars
I have been worth the whistle.
This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
So, Bassianus, you have play'd your prize:
to the complexion of a goose! A fault done first in
No, indeed, my lord.
give him gold, and though authority be a stubborn
Enter YORK and BUCKINGHAM with their Guard and break in
Know ye Don Antonio, your countryman?
And hold our lives in mercy. Oswald, I say!
Wert thou an oracle to tell me so,
And cherish factions: 'tis inferr'd to us,
The secrets of my heart.
And did he search for you, and could not find you?
When first this order was ordain'd, my lords,
There's something else to do: hush, and be mute,
Let us not live in France, let us quit all
Here the lady sings a Welsh song
To use my lawful sword!
'Go tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
SCENE I. On a ship at sea: a tempestuous noise
This is a brave night to cool a courtezan.
Throng to the bar, crying all, Guilty! guilty!
Come in, Titinius!
Let's see the penalty.
Yet do not go away: come, basilisk,
Or else the lady's mad, yet, if 'twere so,
Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left
utters them as he had eaten ballads and all men's
for't. What players are they?
Are pick-purses in love, and we deserve to die.
All these accused him strongly, which he fain
Sir, he may live:
Come, Clarence, come, thou wilt, if Warwick call.
Tut, when struck'st thou one blow in the field?
Give me thy sword. A peasant stand up thus!
cut off a woman's head.
And seek for sorrow with thy spectacles?
Here comes your uncle.
sir? not I, sir. God be wi' you, good Sir Topas.
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end:
That the contents will show.
Out, alas! here comes my master.
Wrest once the law to your authority:
And, sir, it is no little thing to make
And I could laugh, I am light and heavy. Welcome.
It would discredit the blest gods, proud man,
wore it? I mean, in a sort.
I would the cutting of my garments would serve the
And hast the comfort of thy children left thee:
That she might admired be.
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
Of such a burden, male twins, both alike:
SCENE II. The same. The council-chamber.
Shall we call back Northumberland, and send
Let moulten coin be thy damnation,
SCENE III. The same. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
First he denied you had in him no right.
Here, there, and every where, enraged he flew:
But, masters, here's money for you: and the general
And so he vanish'd: then came wandering by
Tucket, within
And bear his charging of wooing, whatsoe'er.
therefore he gives them good leave to wander.
matched, unless the devil himself turn Jew.
Well bandied both, a set of wit well play'd.
Would he were wasted, marrow, bones and all,
Camillo has betray'd me,
Nerissa. Sirrah, go before.
You shall have aid.
I say my prayers aloud.
Ay, she quickly pooped him, she made him roast-meat
Enter YORK
said to a niece of King Gorboduc, 'That that is is,'
Come, stand thou by our side,
At your best leisure, this his humble suit.
[To PISANIO]            Hark thee, a word.
Let each man render me his bloody hand:
Speak to me, I shall answer for her.
My charity is outrage, life my shame
Thou hast beguiled my hopes, nought but mine eye
At his heels a stone.
Now, by my sword, I will kill all his coats,
And which, without desert, because thine eye
That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow
Wrecked the same instant of their master's death and
Thou art his keeper.
manners, Kate, and the liberty that follows our
As to my ample hope was promised
Hot coals of vengeance! Let no soldier fly.
But shall I go mourn for that, my dear?
There lie thy part.
Let's do it after the high Roman fashion,
To do this is within the compass of man's wit: and
It must appear in other ways than words,
If it be aught to the old tune, my lord,
The world is still deceived with ornament.
Even from Hyperion's rising in the east
Thus out of season, threading dark-eyed night:
Perform'd, my Ariel, a grace it had, devouring:
I have tremor cordis on me: my heart dances,
Look, he recovers.
Soldier, you must come to the king.
O that I were a mockery king of snow,
And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow
Why should that name be sounded more than yours?
And he did bid us follow to the temple.
Here, sirrah Grumio, knock, I say.
Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty,
That it would please thee leave these sad designs
Is there no way for men to be but women
It shall not neither. You, sir, come you hither,
To know the reason of these arms in peace,
When as the enemy hath been ten to one:
On his command: he would not suffer me
I am the son of Henry the Fifth,
And on our actions set the name of right
There is another comfort than this world,
Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
But that I am your most obedient servant.
In all these circumstances I'll instruct you:
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
This is all, indeed, la! but I'll ne'er put my
The reason is, your spirits are attentive:
Though he have served a Roman: save him, sir,
there's no going but by their consent: therefore I
That through the window-bars bore at men's eyes,
lady. Tell me your mind: I am a messenger.
Early though't be, have on their riveted trim,
O, this boy
Until my mis-shaped trunk that bears this head
her education promises, her dispositions she
By my soul, nor I:
Given private time to you, and you yourself
It was his bidding: therefore, good Emilia,.
So fare you well, my little good lord cardinal.
but fortune. Coragio, bully-monster, coragio!
Know you this ring? this ring was his of late.
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
God save your majesty! and well met, gentlemen:
How do you, Desdemona?
Nay, look upon him.
That, Britain, I have kill'd thy mistress, peace!
Of this vile politician, Bolingbroke.
conclusion is victory: on whose side? the king's.
But where one villain is, then him abandon.
And you, good sir! Pray, have you not a daughter
Envy and base opinion set against 'em,
Enter LUCIO
May unfold me to him, there stand I in much peril:
Fie, fie, fie!
The wren goes to 't, and the small gilded fly
God keep you from them, and from such false friends!
Sirrah, is this letter true?
He rises on the toe: that spirit of his
Sirrah, Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at
And, as my fortune ripens with thy love,
Enter KING LEAR and Fool
For I profess not talking, only this--
Touching the weal o' the common, you shall find
Should therein make me vile, the common body,
More monstrous standing by: whereof I reckon
Hadst thou been his mother, thou couldst have
not by favour. Our king, being ready to leap out of
And hide the false seems true.
you'll sweat for't.
He! no, she'll none of him, they two are twain.
That war against your own affections
Fly! not we.
You throw a strange regard upon me, and by that
My duty will I boast of, nothing else.
O, he's the very soul of bounty!
SCENE III. Another part of the island.
I hope so, Lepidus. Thus we are agreed:
My lord, the king your father.
As great Alcides' shows upon an ass:
And whiter than the paper it writ on
The fraughting souls within her.
No, coz, I rather weep.
Hold therefore, Angelo:--
Now, good Camillo,
Letter for letter, but that the name of Page and
And watch your safety.
Enter EMILIA
Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
Look where my ranting host of the Garter comes:
The honourable father to my foe
For thy great bounty, that not only givest
In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,
As full of grief as age, wretched in both!
'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
Your reason?
Of boundless tongue, who late hath beat her husband
Yet have I gold flies from another coast,
When first I did embrace him: yet his nature
Enter the PRINCE and WESTMORELAND
Companions to our person and will fit you
face into more lines than is in the new map with the
The fouler fortune mine, and there an end.
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
money presently. Wife, take her in, instruct her
No certain life achieved by others' death.
To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength,
Here, my lord, a trifle of our love.
man against his will.
Though I show ill in't. So I take my leave.
That the fixed sentinels almost receive
And that it should lie with you in your grave:
Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
We would as willingly give cure as know.
by your hearing: all the peace you make in their
What raiment will your honour wear to-day?
This was but as a fly by an eagle: we had much more
basket again, to meet him at the door with it, as
And heaven itself doth frown upon the land.
Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast:
But I will go. Go you before me, sirrah,
A look untender? If't be summer news,
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Make up no factious
On, Myrmidons, and cry you all amain,
Olympus-high and duck again as low
Bardolph, a soldier, firm and sound of heart,
To furnish Rome, and to prepare the ways
And study help for that which thou lament'st.
Thanks for your pains.
This fellow were a king for our wild faction!
What would You, Desdemona?
For that my grandsire was an Englishman,
Enter LUCIUS
appears, it will bate.
by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
speak puling, like a beggar at Hallowmas. You were
Come home to ye!--you must retire yourself
It is no matter, his name's Cinna, pluck but his
To hover on the dreadful shore of Styx?
Madam, I was.
Well, I'll set you forth.
Why, brother Hector,
Sufficing strokes for death.
And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother?
[Within]  Francis!
I think I can discover him, if you please,
Marry, will I, sir, and, for that I promised you,
So, lift there.
I'ld let a parish of such Clotens' blood,
The mouths, the tongues, the eyes and hearts of men
Trace the conjunction!
counsel and understand what advice shall thrust upon
Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
No, not till a hot January.
Enter MARCUS
They stand aloof
Ha, art thou there?
By debitor and creditor: this counter-caster,
No, rather I will go to Benedick
hast men about thee that usually talk of a noun and
But in your bride you bury brotherhood.
churchmen, Master Page, we have some salt of our
spitting or saying we are hoarse, which are the only
The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me,
That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold,
I'll know his grievance, or be much denied.
Now, my lord constable!
Enter COMINIUS, as it were in retire, with soldiers
I' faith, I fear it has.
Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius,
must, that's certain, or forswear to wear iron about you.
O, blood, blood, blood!
Must it be great, and as his person's mighty,
Choler, my lord, if rightly taken.
The wars have so kept you under that you must needs
He falls on the bed
And true subjection everlastingly.
Which fence the roots they grow by and defend them,
The poorest service is repaid with thanks,
Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage,
My figured goblets for a dish of wood,
But to have divinity preached there! did you ever
As I am mad, I do:
Zeal and obedience he still bore your grace,
prognostication, I cannot scratch mine ear. Prithee,
faith. How does your little son?
But sup them well and look unto them all:
And so, have at thee!
Let us score their backs,
This letter doth make good the friar's words,
In mere oppugnancy: the bounded waters
And never gives to truth and virtue that
your eyes as other women do.
Orsino.
To re-salute his country with his tears,
That shall salute our rightful sovereign
But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls,
While all is shared and all is borne away,
Exeunt
Divers and dangerous, which are heresies,
So Fulvia told me.
Hark in thine ear.
Between her brother and Mark Antony.
Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose, that
Like beasts which you shun beastly, and may save,
Now, Rouen, I'll shake thy bulwarks to the ground.
Has done this, and 'tis well, for worthy Wolsey,
Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen
White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps
That you can let this go? Are you so gospell'd
And like a peacock sweep along his tail,
shall do it.
fellow there, whose villanous saffron would have
Peter!
say they be fled, Germans are honest men.
If not, I'll die your maid: to be your fellow
I see you what you are, you are too proud,
turned my daughter into green, and, indeed, she is
Or seek for rule, supremacy and sway,
Come hither, come hither, come hither:
For it is parting from us:
Let some o' the guard be ready there.
Tell him he must awake, and that quickly too.
The gods rebuke me, but it is tidings
Our swifter composition.
As fool and fight is, beside forfeiting
PERICLES discovered
To hear meekly, sir, and to laugh moderately, or to
I must not break my faith.
You and you are heart in heart
accidentally to encounter you: you have ended my
Let him seek out Rosalind.
Signior Petruchio, fie! you are to blame.
For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
To BASSANIO
take it in what sense thou wilt.
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
Lucius, Lucullus, and Sempronius:
'Tis just:
But he's a tried and valiant soldier.
If I to-day die not with Frenchmen's rage,
Inferior to none but to his majesty:
I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
You were half blasted ere I knew you: ha!
He is, indeed, and living to kill thee. I prithee,
And did forsake her: she had a song of 'willow,'
Beshrew me, but you have a quick wit.
How were I then uplifted! but, alas!
your straight strossers.
Alas, thou hast misconstrued every thing!
Which is the better man, the greater throw
Most welcome, sir!
Since that my beauty cannot please his eye,
Brother Petruchio, sister Katharina,
Now, by mine honour, by my life, by my troth,
I do adore thy sweet grace's slipper.
Upon their spotted souls for this offence!
Very well, and could be content to give him good
And to make a sweet lady sad is a sour offence.
That runaway's eyes may wink and Romeo
Is smooth'd by that below: the learned pate
Or count them happy that enjoy the sun?
for thee at the North-gate.
How comes it now, my husband, O, how comes it,
That's worthily
A still-soliciting eye, and such a tongue
I will instruct my sorrows to be proud,
becomes the ground.
How say you? O, I should remember him: does he not
Come on then, down, and swear.
the mart, let him look to his bond: he was wont to
The qualities of people. Come, my queen,
Come, Marcus, come, kinsmen, this is the way.
Come down.
If you go out in your own semblance, you die, Sir
Pray, hear me.
Lord Timon will be left a naked gull,
Which is his house, beseech you?
There's many have committed it.
With mutual cunning, 'twixt Albany and Cornwall,
As I belong to worship and affect
Oh, he is young and his minority
Whose was't?
So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet.
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
for, by gar, me vill have it.
Good madam, if by me you'll be advised,
Who deserves greatness
Thank me for this more than for all the favours
Exit
O Jupiter! there's no comparison.
Satisfy!
tame, and know their natures. Farewell, monsieur:
Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses,
I'll get me one of such another length.
riot, take your vizaments in that.
Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
Which ever as she could with haste dispatch,
do than to confess she does: that is one of the
It may be so, but I did never see it.
A thousand fiends, a thousand hissing snakes,
Could ever hear by tale or history,
And with another knot, five-finger-tied,
Enter MARDIAN
Appear not like a guest.
How now! what do you here alone?
Resolve me, with all modest haste, which way
The king's not here.
Avaunt, thou damned door-keeper!
Enter HORATIO and a Servant
Let is be so: yet have I left a daughter,
Give ear to his motions, Master Slender: I will
Will catch at us, like strumpets, and scald rhymers
another encounter, which lames report to follow it
Here, swear then how thou escapedst.
But resolution, and the briefest end.
honour? a word. What is in that word honour? what
Nurture can never stick, on whom my pains,
With trees upon't, that nod unto the world,
Saw I men scour so on their way: I eyed them
O, name him not: let us not break with him,
Him we go to find: there's not a hair on's head
That, when I note another man like him,
Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth
Away, away, good William de la Pole!
You kill me to deny it. Farewell.
Nay, I will consent to act any villany against him,
How now, mine host!
For the whole world.
Here's Gloucester, a foe to citizens,
You'll pay me the eight shillings I won of you at betting?
Let's call more help to have them bound again.
And pluck commiseration of his state
Dispose of them, of me, the walls are thine:
As now she might have done,
once more search with me.
The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.
Yet I will favour thee in what I can.
This is the night
Of hot and cold, he was nor sad nor merry.
But let the laws of Rome determine all,
To grace thy marriage-day, I'll beautify.
The hearing of my wife with your approach,
fast enough of themselves, and to call 'horum:' fie upon you!
In vaults and prisons, and to thrill and shake
These roguing thieves serve the great pirate Valdes,
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
With a more larger list of sceptres.
be no great love in the beginning, yet heaven may
the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
Be wise, and get you home.
Good day to both your graces.
The lord protector lost it, and not I:
Which never shall be found--you did suspect
Without, my lord, guarded, to know your pleasure.
Alas, poor duke! the task he undertakes
As of a father: for let the world take note,
O that brave Caesar!
And entertain'd me with mine own device,
And go in peace, Humphrey, no less beloved
Are every one a woe, a sore complaint
our princess English?
And let not Bardolph's vital thread be cut
Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth,
Liege of all loiterers and malcontents,
Of watery Neptune, is now bound in with shame,
Ne'er trust me then, for when a world of men
When you do take the means whereby I live.
And Hymen now with luckier issue speed's
But thither would I hie.
Which Somerset hath offer'd to my house:
There be some sports are painful, and their labour
Look out, and speak to friends: the Athenians,
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
I wonder how the king escaped our hands.
And though the edge hath something hit ourselves,
These oracles are hardly attain'd,
Show me a thousand that have done thee wrong,
But mine and mine I loved and mine I praised
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
Hear you, cousin, a word.
think what a man is: let her consider his frailty,
hearts, what ado here is to bring you together!
Exeunt
Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you,
Exeunt all but MONTAGUE, LADY MONTAGUE, and BENVOLIO
you, throw none away, the skin is good for your
In that he wears the badge of Somerset.
How he describes himself!
Well said, Hal! to it Hal! Nay, you shall find no
Had from the conversation of my thoughts
Then, masters, look to see a troublous world.
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE on the top, thrusting out a torch burning
Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
Name them.
A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
Forerunning more requital.
Neither.
A dagger of the mind, a false creation,
Presuming on an ague's privilege,
O, when she's angry, she is keen and shrewd!
seven years
further than I meant, to pluck all fears out of you.
Any exploit worthy the name of honour.
Good Enobarbus!
Roam thither, then.
garter up thy arms o' this fashion? dost make hose of
Or seven fair branches springing from one root:
My motion, have it not in my tongue: but yet
Frenchmen, I'll be a Salisbury to you:
That's fouler.
Could all but answer for that peevish brat?
Which is my heaven to have. Come, thou
Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls--
do the part of an honest man in it.
Why that's some comfort. What, Camillo there?
For her relapse is mortal. Come, come,
That this same paper brings you.
Why dost not comfort me, and help me out
He took good rest to-night,
and my old Venetian friend Salerio?
lord's behalf, I come to entreat your honour to
Nay, I am for all waters.
Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth,
I have no will to wander forth of doors,
I am afraid, sir,
speech of insultment ended on his dead body, and
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE and ANNE PAGE
SCENE VII. Gloucester's castle.
tender, a kind of tender, made afar off by Sir Hugh
Oh! oh! a while, but ha! ha! ha!
England, thou hast not saved one drop of blood,
Thyself domestic officers--thine enemy:
What sayest thou? speak suddenly, be brief.
Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that ever
east side of the grove?
For none abides with me: my joy is death,
Did make my way long forth.
'Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups, soft beds,
And all the devils are here.'
Which lead directly to the door of truth,
Thou thinkest I am in sport: I pray thee tell me
Marking the embarked traders on the flood,
While as the silly owner of the goods
He did solicit you in free contempt
I thank you, honest lord. Remember me
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
nothing still.
These lovers cry Oh! oh! they die!
O, well said, Lucius!
their worships to think it was his infirmity. Three
Must sanctify his reliques. Who comes here?
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine,
As may appear by Edward's good success,
Are not you moved, when all the sway of earth
Leave us to ourselves, and make yourself some comfort
That he, our hope, might have retired his power,
Have been as piercing as the mid-day sun,
As you do love, fill to your mistress' lips,--
'Tis he,'tis he: O, he is grown most kind of late.
And feed upon the shadow of perfection
Come, come, do you think I do not know you by your
Change slander to remorse, that is some good:
For your fair sakes have we neglected time,
Now, by my maidenhead, at twelve year old,
For hunting was his daily exercise.
Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise,
Sweet prince, the untainted virtue of your years
thrust in the mouth with a spear, and 'tis not whole
Or hoop his body more with thy embraces,
He wrings at some distress.
Fellows in arms, and my most loving friends,
That is her ransom, I deliver her,
'Twixt hour and hour?
title, and I will fit her to it. Wonder not till
But first I will release the fairy queen.
did: I met this man with my glove in his cap, and I
cause, and be silent, that you may hear: believe me
Let him that loves me strike me dead.
Strange tortures for offenders never heard of,
All these and more we hazard by thy stay,
I am not Cinna the conspirator.
Farewell, York's wife, and queen of sad mischance:
I melancholy! I am not melancholy. Get you home, go.
good masters.
With what a sorrow Cromwell leaves his lord.
But keep a farm and carters.
Coward of France! how much he wrongs his fame,
Exit
Thou know'st that we two went to school together:
As, in reproof of many tales devised,
and let the world slip: we shall ne'er be younger.
Comes dear'd by being lack'd. This common body,
While we lie tumbling in the hay.
That's all one: has hurt me, and there's the end
That 'only' came well in. Sir, list to me:
Ay, my good lord, a very virtuous maid,
The violent fit o' the time craves it as physic
But that of coward hares, hot goats, and venison!
My royal nephew, and your name Capucius.
But, were I you, he never should be mine.
Caesar, thy thoughts
Or I with grief and extreme age shall perish
Yes, my lord, you see them perspectively, the cities
Exeunt
We licence your departure with your son.
That would be son to great Antiochus.
Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes
Upon our joint and several dignities.
Your dicipline in war, wisdom in peace,
Is whispering nothing?
And bring your music forth into the air.
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond
Proceeded well, to stop all good proceeding!
A piece of ice: if thou doubt it, thou mayst slide
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen,
And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep,
beholder, that knew no more but seeing, could not
That Caesar will not grant. O, I grow faint.
fire cannot melt out of me: I will die in it at the stake.
I will be free from thee. What wouldst thou now? If
Are partners in the business.
Nor pluck it from his finger, for the wealth
To this chair bind him. Villain, thou shalt find--
simple syllogism will serve, so, if it will not,
The more I love, the more he hateth me.
And practise rhetoric in your common talk,
'In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant:'
Because you are not of our quality,
Casca, be sudden, for we fear prevention.
See riot and dishonour stain the brow
I thought, at least, he would have said the king,
Better to leave undone, than by our deed
To pluck proud Lucius from the warlike Goths.
Great hurt and mischief, thereto witness may
you thus get my wife into corners.
From his true-meant design. Upon his place,
Traitors, avaunt! Where is the emperor's guard?
Nay, all of you that stand and look upon,
How many shallow bauble boats dare sail
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms,
Who!--nay, then: come, come, you'll do him wrong
jealous in France.
Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken,
Exit Provost
And you shall understand from me her mind.
Exit
The gods to their dear shelter take thee, maid,
Fellow, be gone: I cannot brook thy sight:
Let it alone, let's to billiards: come, Charmian.
Here is a purr of fortune's, sir, or of fortune's
Which, if thou hast consider'd, let us know
city's cost, the pissing-conduit run nothing but
A Gallian girl at home, he furnaces
Thou art more deep damn'd than Prince Lucifer:
Re-enter FABIAN, with MALVOLIO
Why, so hath this, both by the father and mother.
Nor with sour looks afflict his gentle heart.
gentleman that danced with her told her she is much
Even such a woman oweth to her husband,
Knock off his manacles, bring your prisoner to the king.
And bay'd about with many enemies,
Alack, my fellows, what should I say to you?
To kindle their dry stubble, and their blaze
Sir, as I have a soul, she is an angel,
Thy temples should be planted presently
Good brother, come you hither,
Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
I promise you, but for your company,
Have done! for shame, if not for charity.
To let you enter his unpeopled house.
Pluck them asunder.
Of this new marriage with the Lady Grey?
These terms of treason doubled down his throat.
Desired more than constrain'd: to satisfy,
Hours dreadful and things strange, but this sore night
The duty of the day: she looks us like
If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes.
And so did I:--Well, we were born to die.
ta'en from me, and these detestable things put upon
Of being tyrannous, since we so openly
How now! are the horses ready?
Do with their death bury their parents' strife.
I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch!
Out of his lunacies.
Neglect the visitation of my friends.
No, I will not:
If I did stay to look on his intents.
vous avez le possession de moi,--let me see, what
Sir, how comes't that you
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
SCENE I. Cyprus. A street.
And when you have done so, bring the keys to me.
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
To whom the heavens in thy nativity
And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own,
false. Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, and
The man i' the moon's too slow--till new-born chins
Hard-handed men that work in Athens here,
O, I am slain!
Of fire and water, when their thundering shock
Must be to loathe her. O curse of marriage,
And there the little souls of Edward's children
baseness, it is as much as I can do to keep the
I do not think it good.
There should be found such false dissembling guile?
Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence
Without you? nay, that's certain, for, without you
Enter DIOMEDES
Said I for this, the girl was like to him?
Though in the trade of war I have slain men,
woman is a dish for the gods, if the devil dress her
We two, my lord,
The spirit of the time shall teach me speed.
Exeunt
His leather skin and horns to wear.
SCENE II. Another room in the palace.
Is that an answer?
Entreated me to call and know her mind:
Our expectation hath this day an end:
And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence.
hanging, or of some death more long in
I am not to his manners. O Lorenzo,
The appellant in all duty greets your highness,
Let me ne'er see again.
Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,
Or all will fall in broil.
But kings and mightiest potentates must die,
Made wit with musing weak, heart sick with thought.
When slanders do not live in tongues,
Rotten humidity, below thy sister's orb
Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day?
But there, where I have garner'd up my heart,
Good masters, take it not unkindly, pray,
Come, Sir Andrew, there's no remedy, the gentleman
In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
Of pellmell havoc and confusion.
That we two are asunder, let that grieve him:
virtue to practise his judgment with the disposition
And follows close the rigour of the statute,
Their needless vouches? Custom calls me to't:
ones, but they are most of them means and bases, but
Give me thy hand: thou shalt have a share in our
And plant your joys in living Edward's throne.
This do thou for my love, and so let him,
The last of all the Romans, fare thee well!
Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
Madam.
Why tender'st thou that paper to me, with
Let go thy hand.
This is, sure, Fidele.
Hath from the number of his banish'd years
Creatures may be alike: were 't he, I am sure
Which accidentally are met together.
Through forth-rights and meanders! By your patience,
Go on, go on
me your good report to the prince my master.
Revenge, ye heavens, for old Andronicus!
Royal Antiochus--on what cause I know not--
To keep that oath were more impiety
But how wilt thou do for a father?
He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't,
But omne bene, say I, being of an old father's mind,
Might have prevented many. Eros, ho!
My business cannot brook this dalliance.
If I had a mind to be honest, I see Fortune would
Thus most invectively he pierceth through
Ay, see the bishop be not overborne.
That in the captain's but a choleric word,
But what indeed is honest to be done:
O sacred receptacle of my joys,
son should be a fool, whose skull Jove cram with
are as mad as he.
Let not young Mutius, then, that was thy joy
As 'twere i' the father's person, kisses the hands
Or that for which I live, who once again
Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier,
Be sure of it, give me the ocular proof:
How accompanied?
I was of late as petty to his ends
A little fire is quickly trodden out,
life, for then we are sure they are true.
With divers deaths in death.
Upon thy tongue as in my thought: now, good now,
That what we have we prize not to the worth
Make thee the father of their idle dreams
I know what you would say: if I have known her,
Not that I know.
an emperor,
Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,
And the device he bears upon his shield
love keep little company together now-a-days, the
So 'tis reported:
My wife's a hobby-horse, deserves a name
The dead men's blood, the pining maidens groans,
If you do say we think him over-proud
Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely,
Steps aside
If you, born in these latter times,
Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither,
some strange thing toward, Edmund, pray you, be careful.
laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve, the
Madam my interpreter, what says she?
One that you love.
Let life be short, else shame will be too long.
With bated breath and whispering humbleness, Say this,
Peace, I pray you. Now let us understand. There is
That I, forsooth, am stern, and love them not?
He needs not our mistrust, since he delivers
there's something extraordinary in thee. Come, I
See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
Unclasp, unclasp:
We met by chance, you did not find me here.
Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave
There's something tells me, but it is not love,
out of fear.
Here, through this grate, I count each one
this from Hero. They seem to pity the lady: it
I met the duke yesterday and had much question with
How much in having, or without or in,
May be possessed with some store of crowns,
As is the other for beauteous modesty.
Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
You ne'er kill'd Imogen til now. Help, help!
THE ORDER OF THE CORONATION
It is not worth leave-taking.
No, I can better play the orator.
the judgment-day.
Whiles I take order for mine own affairs.
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
Enter PISTOL
need none, so long as I live.
Stephano!
With purple fountains issuing from your veins,
More covetous of wisdom and fair virtue
We lost a jewel of her, and our esteem
SCENE II. The same. The field of battle.
So let high-sighted tyranny range on,
Thy greatest help is quiet, gentle Nell:
Can you, my Lord of Winchester, behold
Is he not jealous?
Thou speak'st aright,
Who parted with me to go fetch a chain,
Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh.
She loved them most.
Labienus--
This is nothing, fool.
guiltless and of free disposition, is to take those
That your best friends shall wish I had been further.
There cannot be those numberless offences
Will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
And minister correction to thy fault!
As it is like him--might break out, and swear
And you but waste your words.
An if thou hast the mettle of a king,
Preserved the Britons, was the Romans' bane.'
Let us from point to point this story know,
Though last, not last in love, yours, good Trebonius.
And military title capital
My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, 'tis she
which none must know but the king, and which he
Before I drew this gallant head of war,
but my Nell would not have it so. How chance my
Is this the man? Is't you, sir, that know things?
known to you, and though we have there a substitute
Holy seems the quarrel
But thou shouldst please me better, wouldst thou weep.
To other friends, and so farewell, Sir Michael.
pitiful-hearted Titan, that melted at the sweet tale
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
That art incestuous: caitiff, to pieces shake,
As goddess-like to her admired lays,
As much as child e'er loved, or father found,
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
This tempest will not give me leave to ponder
No, by no means.
Our legions are brim-full, our cause is ripe:
Is not Gaunt dead, and doth not Hereford live?
knew of their going to bed, and of other motions,
That was not born of woman? Such a one
Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to thee
go one way or other: howsoever, he shall pay for me
A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
Lord, what fools these mortals be!
All that you speak shows fair.
Like captives bound to a triumphant car.
Item, Anchovies and sack after supper, 2s. 6d.
I am near to the place where they should meet, if
hang'd first.
It is impossible you should see this,
The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen,
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?
Sir, would she give you so much of her lips
And every thing that seems unnatural.
And, in thy best consideration, cheque
Who, you all know, are honourable men:
to most preposterous conclusions: but we have
There is a mystery--with whom relation
One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons,
Cassio hath here been set on in the dark
Tell me, Apollo, for thy Daphne's love,
Will thereto be obedient, I have reason,
Made Britain India: every man that stood
Exit BARDOLPH
This very night at one another's heels,
If knowledge be the mark, to know thee shall suffice,
Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
What maintenance he from his friends receives,
For he fears none.
And, by the glorious worth of my descent,
An your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit,
O, good sir, softly, good sir! I fear, sir, my
Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France:
As who goes farthest.
Boys, apes, braggarts, Jacks, milksops!
Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus.
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
Were present when she finish'd.
Go off, I discard you: let me enjoy my private: go
'Widow Dido' said you? you make me study of that:
And he wants wit that wants resolved will
I would all the world might be cozened, for I have
At the sixth hour of morn, at noon, at midnight,
The meat was well, if you were so contented.
Cousin, all honour to thee!
[Awaking]  O Helena, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine!
No, no, it cannot be, and yet my heart
walked, to walk like one of the lions, when you
But how camest thou by this ring? At my depart
So, rushing in the bowels of the French,
therefore, once more to this Captain Dumain: you
It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear
Nature's: Fortune reigns in gifts of the world,
Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down,
As pure as sin with baptism.
Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio,
If ever we are nature's, these are ours, this thorn
And that to-morrow you will bring it home.
You had only in your silent judgment tried it,
There's for you, Patroclus.
Aside
Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew,--
But that defences, musters, preparations,
paths our very petticoats will catch them.
and so sweet a breath to sing, as the fool has. In
Tyrants themselves wept when it was reported.
and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs.
Here: what's the matter?
In way of marriage: therefore be advised.
Madam, they are not yet,
O noble emperor, do not fight by sea,
These cull'd and choice-drawn cavaliers to France?
Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
Re-enter TITUS, with LAVINIA, he bearing a knife, and she a basin
My Lord of Winchester, I know your mind,
In number more than ever women spoke,
'Twas where the madcap duke his uncle kept,
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
Is not my sorrow deep, having no bottom?
That eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh
'Speak, strike, redress!' Am I entreated
sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of
Foul-spoken coward, that thunder'st with thy tongue,
The queen is valued thirty thousand strong,
No more, thou thunder-master, show
Was Cassius born. Give me thy hand, Messala:
If with the sap of reason you would quench,
Exeunt
Definitively thus I answer you.
That will confess perfection so could err
And what with Owen Glendower's absence thence,
No, I pray you,
physicians,
No, 'faith, she let it drop by negligence.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
doth not the appetite alter? a man loves the meat
Whose life was England's glory, Gallia's wonder.
whereupon, after a little amazedness, we were all
To the last hour of act, and then 'tis thought
Till, like a boy, you see him cringe his face,
Old John of Gaunt, time-honour'd Lancaster,
'Tis dry enough,--will, with great speed of judgment,
shall we not? what sayest thou, my fair
Know you these two?
The skilful shepherd peel'd me certain wands,
Ripeness is all: come on.
What? thou liest! Sir Alice Ford! These knights
into stitches, follow me. Yond gull Malvolio is
Then take my soul, my body, soul and all,
She sat like patience on a monument,
than himself
As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou
That he is borne about invisible:
This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn,
Where every horse bears his commanding rein,
I'll see what I can do.
sides, like a leather jerkin.
King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak,
the lady is disloyal.
Sound Trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and SOMERSET, on the terrace
How now, Patroclus!
As doth the lion in the Capitol,
That such immanity and bloody strife
If I forgive him!
Dare bite the best. I do beseech your lordships,
to-morrow, Sir Toby.
Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense.
Let her come in.
Which do but what they should, by doing every thing
When you are better temper'd to attend.
accustomed crossness.
As Nature was in making graces dear
Which I'll lay down.
Sir, you have wrestled well and overthrown
When violence assails us.
It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the
And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy:
And with your best endeavour have stirr'd up
cannot cog and say thou art this and that, like a
Exit
Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice,
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
You that durst swear at your mistress Bianca
Her father will be angry.
When subtle Greeks surprised King Priam's Troy,
Long live our sovereign Richard, England's king!
If any one relieves or pities him,
Oh, that deceit should steal such gentle shapes,
I thought had been my lord.
you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it: I bought
'Better a witty fool, than a foolish wit.'
Of my revenge, thou present. But look to it:
By thee Anjou and Maine were sold to France,
See that forthwith Duke Edward be convey'd
O, yes, my lord, but very idle words:
Good Michael, look you to the guard to-night:
But thou art fair, and at thy birth, dear boy,
Knocking within
Is come indeed, when I should see behind me
Is this: she hath bought the name of whore
fool with child,--a dumb innocent, that could not
No richer in return.
As I did him, and speak of something wildly
marry, thus, my lord: my dear lord and most esteemed
Exeunt
oath before this honourable assembly, she kicked the
At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
thorough them.
Why lament you, pretty one?
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall:
That, like the sun, did make beholders wink?
Would you, my lord, aught with the general?
As Cassius' legions are by Antony.
Let not your ears despise my tongue for ever,
Brother, we done deeds of charity,
are but boards, sailors but men: there be land-rats
Nay you must call me Rosalind. Come, sister, will you go?
Not a word of me. All that I will tell you is, that
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
Sir, at the farthest for a week or two:
Well said: that was laid on with a trowel.
Mine's not an idle cause: the duke himself,
Your queen and I are devils: yet go on,
Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from
Why, villain, art not thou the carrier?
Go, then, for 'tis in vain
Enter a Servant and PANDARUS
Be swift like lightning in the execution,
That faced and braved me in this matter so?
Assured loss before the match be play'd.
heir to the crown.
But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! farewell,
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
Thou, being a king, blest with a goodly son,
Ever to conquer, and to have his worth
A many fools, that stand in better place,
What would you have me do? I am a subject,
The count's gentleman, one Cesario: we took him for
And nothing of a man.
Biron, they will shame us: let them not approach.
Exit
I take it kindly, and yet be well assured
Since last we saw in France?
My lord protector will, I doubt it not,
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
Thy banish'd trunk be found in our dominions,
Put forth their sons to seek preferment out:
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know,
Enter CANIDIUS
My life is run his compass. Sirrah, what news?
Of our great quell?
The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn,
A solemn air and the best comforter
If thou remember'st aught ere thou camest here,
Cannot your Grace win her to fancy him?
Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year,
Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?
To ABERGAVENNY
To grace it with your sorrows: bid that welcome
Is the third man that e'er I saw, the first
Or else a breath: the combatants being kin
There's two of you, the devil make a third!
inch narrow to an ell broad!
Enter two Officers, to lay cushions
Margaret shall now be queen, and rule the king,
You seem'd of late to make the law a tyrant,
And by and by intend to chide myself
The fellow has good judgment.
Mutually.
So much they love it, but to stubborn spirits
Enter PROTEUS
To-morrow, soldier,
Confusion fall--
Fear not my government.
Thus is poor Suffolk ten times banished,
Forbear, forbear, I say! it is my lord the duke.
I do arrest your words. Be that you are,
Another alarum. The Volsces fly, and MARCIUS follows them to the gates
I stand accountant for as great a sin,
You shall have ransom. Let me have surgeons,
get the learned writer to set down our
No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.
Where is the fellow?
TYBALT under ROMEO's arm stabs MERCUTIO, and flies with his followers
What say you to this, sir?
she's noted.
ANTIPHOLUS
Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter.
Three proper young men, of excellent growth and presence.
came, saw, and overcame: he came, one, saw two,
Alarum. Excursions. Enter PISTOL, French Soldier, and Boy
Be kind and courteous to this gentleman,
I love Lavinia more than all the world.
Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun:
SCENE II. The French camp.
garters! If I be ta'en, I'll peach for this. An I
Do thou stand for my father, and examine me upon the
In this day's council, but we'll take to-morrow.
A native slip to us from foreign seeds:
Because all those things you have done of late,
No, but not yet: may be he is not well:
For if the king like not the comedy,
As thus for thus and such a grief for such,
To say extremity was the trier of spirits,
Too curst is more than curst: I shall lessen God's
O, now you weep, and, I perceive, you feel
Come the three corners of the world in arms,
This act so evilly born shall cool the hearts
wine loved I deeply, dice dearly: and in woman
Enter two or three Servants with a chest
Ay, ay: I care not for good life.
Thou art the nonpareil.
Like a mad lad,
Win you this city without stroke or wound,
Good morrow, kind Sir Eglamour.
Why, then he is alive.
These that I bring unto their latest home,
Knocking
You are too old, sir, let it satisfy you, you are too old.
Why, farewell, Portia. We must die, Messala:
It will go hard with poor Antonio.
How should that be?
Exeunt
early: so that to go to bed after midnight is to go
the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of
white spot about her.
I would not shave't to-day.
Nor construe any further my neglect,
Now, the pox upon her green-sickness for me!
SONG.
Let us go.
My sword should bite it: not the dreadful spout
To banish your defenders, till at length
Very bootless.
Know you the hand?
I hope I shall know your honour better.
What, in my sight? Bianca, get thee in.
You do yourselves but wrong to stir me up,
Lord Titus, by your leave, this maid is mine.
though I had never so good means, as desire, to make
You cannot beg us, sir, I can assure you, sir we know
In all his own desires, nay, let him choose
Being scarce made up,
And till he tell the truth,
Even in the afternoon of her best days,
Exeunt DULL and JAQUENETTA
Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath,
I am for other than for dancing measures.
Who was the thane lives yet,
I heard not of it before.
Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition:
To be set high in place, we did commend
And he that brings his head unto the king
Well met, good morrow, Titus and Hortensius.
And say she uttereth piercing eloquence:
Be it for nothing but to spite my wife--
All in gore-blood, I swounded at the sight.
Madam, if this you purpose as ye speak,
To link my dear friend to a common stale.
Talk not of France, sith thou hast lost it all.
Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb,
May drop upon his kingdom and devour
Hath turn'd my feigned prayer on my head
I reck not though I end my life to-day.
Why, he that cuts off twenty years of life
Must have a word anon. Lay hold on him.
All these old witnesses--I cannot err--
cuckold's horns. Master Brook, thou shalt know I
I'll never trouble you, if I may spy them.
Unready! ay, and glad we 'scaped so well.
despite of the flesh and the blood.
A phoenix, captain and an enemy,
Then to cart with Rosalind.
She wish'd she had not heard it, yet she wish'd
Exit
What mean you, sir,
As he was born. The king he takes the babe
Not doing 't and being done: he, most humane
such dispositions as he bears, this last
And let your reason with your choler question
blood, and hot blood begets hot thoughts, and hot
O God, have I overcome mine enemy in this presence?
I'll set her on,
As in his shape. Go, sirrah, to my cell,
Your letter is with Jupiter by this.
Crams his rich thievery up, he knows not how:
Captive to thee and to thy Roman yoke,
Exit
And press'd in with this caution. First, methought
SCENE II. Another part of the island.
Here, sister, arm'd, and bloody in intent.
The which shall point you forth at every sitting
The duke and senators of Venice greet you.
By a vain prophecy of Nicholas Hopkins.
my comfort is, that old age, that ill layer up of
Wherefore did they not
But since correction lieth in those hands
Quip Modest, the third, the Reply Churlish, the
Out of his grace he adds.
Come to our pavilion: Boyet is disposed.
If there be more, more woeful, hold it in,
Dies
mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good
converse with a dumb-show? How oddly he is suited!
Go prick thy face, and over-red thy fear,
Be near at hand, I may miscarry in't.
Carouse full measure to her maidenhead,
To feed for aye her ramp and flames of love,
that are fallible: tomorrow you must die, go to
Dear Princess, were not his requests so far
Welcome is banishment, welcome were my death.
What stuff is this! how say you?
How now, daughter! what makes that frontlet on?
From one that so imperfectly conceits,
She'll with the labour end.
Don Pedro is approached.
Here comes the holy legate of the pope.
In profiting by them. Nay, call us ten times frail,
There is no other way but to tell the king
And go we, brothers, to the man that took him,
To PHEBE
One would have lingering wars with little cost,
Prithee, hie thee, he'll come anon:--
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
You are come to see my daughter Anne?
Nor did you think it folly
I was the next by birth and parentage,
be this morning executed, and his head born to Angelo.
Till Norfolk be repeal'd: repeal'd he shall be,
Enter MARCUS and LAVINIA
you, of the Roman disciplines, than is a puppy-dog.
b, spelt backward, with the horn on his head?
pinched with the colic, you make faces like
No, my lord.
Ay, indeed, was he.
Of every creature's best!
SCENE III. Venice. A street.
Old Signior Gremio has in Padua,
Leaving our rankness and irregular course,
Then be thou jocund: ere the bat hath flown
Let it be so. Say, where will you assault?
Did keep ten thousand men? was this the face
It toucheth you, my lord, as much as me.
will be forth. Come you to me at night, you shall
Enter MISTRESS PAGE
To give thee nightly visitation.
If not to heaven, then hand in hand to hell.
To this unworthy husband of his wife,
Than cherishing the exhibiters against us,
To ratify the work--we may again
Exeunt
No, good-faced sir, no, sweet sir.
Now does my project gather to a head:
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell
Which had superfluous kings for messengers
Exit
If he improve them, may well stretch so far
Exeunt Lords
What boots it thee to call thyself a sun?
Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.
Into a general prophecy, That this tempest,
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
O, let them keep it till thy sins be ripe,
To point his slow unmoving finger at!
The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
Buckled below fair knighthood's bending knee:
Poison'd, then.
We may, each wreathed in the other's arms,
rest on's body cold. Look, here comes a walking fire.
Pyramus draws near the wall: silence!
Hail, heaven!
What boded this, but well forewarning wind
I must eat my dinner.
Whatever torment you do put me to.
How came you, Cassio, by that handkerchief
Of other your new pranks. I do beseech you
Thou hast a servant named Lucilius.
I turn you not away, but, like a master
Thereon dependent, for your brother's life,--
Myself had notice of your conventicles--
If ever he have wife, let her he made
And yet, in substance and authority,
Have to the full appeach'd.
My good knave Eros, now thy captain is
other circumstance. Good morrow, for, as I take it,
Exeunt
Leaving no heir begotten of his body--
pawn till it be brought you.
Into our city with thy banners spread:
Who drown'd their enmity in my true tears.
Dies
Might thus have stood begetting wonder as
'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
And with those hands, that grasp'd the heaviest club,
that I returned you an empty messenger.
My lord, my lord, you are a sectary,
bless myself every way. You are both sure, and will assist me?
We will ourself in person to this war:
More perilous than the head.
We will be revenged.
All use of quittance.
Patience, I say, your mind perhaps may change.
With foul and violent tempest.
thou keep!
self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the
How! know you where you are?
heal your pate.
danger where he was like to find fame. To a cruel
And anon, sir,
Enter QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
How ugly night comes breathing at his heels:
And in the morning early shall my uncle
Therefore, dear boy, mount on my swiftest horse,
And practising upon his peace and quiet
Provoked by my offence.
whether you were sent for, or no?
No, to the spital go,
This presence knows,
have purchased as many diseases under her roof as come to--
And so our scene must to the battle fly,
Myself an enemy to all other joys,
Stones have been known to move and trees to speak,
With whom an upright zeal to right prevails
For our first merriment hath made thee jealous.
That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
and anon falleth like a crab on the face of terra,
With that dear blood which it hath fostered,
Had he done so, himself had borne the crown,
I come to cope.
As loath to lose him, not your father's death,
Some sudden mischief may arise of it,
And grapple with him ere he comes so nigh.
Hearty thanks:
And fearfully did menace me with death,
Exit Soothsayer
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
Will hum about mine ears, and sometime voices
To give the enemy way, and to secure us
Ay, he does well enough if he be disposed, and so do
Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
Go, go, cheer up thy hungry-starved men,
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
That were to blow at fire in hope to quench it,
Crying confusion.
it drizzles rain, and I will, like a true drunkard,
I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote
But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground,
Nor shall not, when my fancy's on my play.
What shall become of this? what will this do?
O, sir,--
Lady, you have. Pray you, peruse that letter.
First, heaven be the record to my speech!
Titus Andronicus, the people of Rome,
And with a kind of umber smirch my face,
You lie, you are not he.
To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
With hey, ho,  and c.
By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth,
You have holp to ravish your own daughters and
Exeunt
But should he wrong my liberties in my absence?
The Gordian knot of it he will unloose,
Derive this, come.
[Kneeling]
My good lord--
She'll hamper thee, and dandle thee like a baby:
Exit, dragged off by Soldiers
our sheep: and would you have us kiss tar? The
To PISANIO
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
Commend me bountifully to his good lordship, and I
Your holy hat to be stamp'd on the king's coin.
The offence is not of such a bloody nature,
Despite thy victor sword and fire-new fortune,
Sauf votre honneur, me understand vell.
Here, sir, as foolish as I was before.
What's the news? what's the news?
war, no taxation of homage: I hold the olive in my
That the life-weary taker may fall dead
And I am going to deliver them.
Farewell, my masters, to my task will I,
For me?
There died this morning of a cruel fever
Peace, no more. Adieu.
Some run from brakes of ice, and answer none:
That's as much as to say, they are fools that marry:
And tire the hearer with a book of words.
SCENE VIII. Venice. A street.
Advance our waving colours on the walls,
Instance, O instance! strong as Pluto's gates,
Thou princely leader of our English strength,
But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes.
Villains, set down the corse, or, by Saint Paul,
will hack, and so thou shouldst not alter the
He commands us to provide, and give great gifts,
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes,
Speak, Queen of Goths, dost thou applaud my choice?
The business we have talk'd of.
Taken from Paul's to be interred there,
she does so take on with her men, they mistook their erection.
Says it will come to the full. Mark Antony
My lords, before it pleased his majesty
Of whence I am, nor that I am more better
Made him my book wherein my soul recorded
Good Aaron, give his majesty my hand:
Thou counterfeit'st most lively.
That Ferdinand is drown'd?
Thy hand upon that match.
Speak softly, or the loss of those great towns
Straight marry her: to this her mother's plot
Mine innocent child?
My gracious lady, go,
serenissima,--
Known but by letter: thither write, my queen,
tell us when we meet at supper: how thirty, at
Who is it that hath died for this offence?
What judgment shall I dread, doing
The finch, the sparrow and the lark,
Therefore, above the rest, we parley to you:
Yet, Derby, notwithstanding she's your wife,
I hope your warrant will bear out the deed.
Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
Now help, ye charming spells and periapts,
Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
I will have it no lay.
Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.
Who told me, in the narrow seas that part
He, but a duke, would have his son a king,
Pray, chuck, come hither.
By heaven, my heart is purged from grudging hate:
What hands are here? ha! they pluck out mine eyes.
into some monastery, but, by chance, nothing of what
That respites me a life, whose very comfort
Yea, and elsewhere, so far as my coin would stretch,
Too well, too well.
Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
Loved none in the world so well as Lucentio.
To note the chamber: I will write all down:
My earnest-gaping sight of thy land's view,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  O, to him, to him, wench! he
With shunless destiny, aidless came off,
But if black scandal or foul-faced reproach
Enter FLAVIUS, MARULLUS, and certain Commoners
That he will give them make I as little question
Knocking
That many have and others must sit there,
Would blow you through and through.
Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable?
We will have rings and things and fine array,
too loud, or tainting his discipline, or from what
The grosser manner of these world's delights
herself wittingly.
Exeunt
From courtly friends, with camping foes to live,
Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them:
The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
Is't not a kind of incest, to take life
Made me to quit the house.
But have you never found my brother's way
that should water this sorrow.
Madam!
something of that jealous complexion.
Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
latter end and she must be blind too.
equally to me disloyal.'
Both of his truth and him, which was too far,
And so, good morrow, servant.
Of ill-shaped fishes, and about his shelves
Is that my prize? are my deserts no better?
Within the limit of becoming mirth,
And will acknowledge you and Jessica
The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis received,
The gravity and stillness of your youth
And all-admiring with an inward wish
It does from childishness: can Fulvia die?
Sir John Falstaff.
O my Lord Abergavenny, fare you well!
One heaved a-high, to be hurl'd down below,
here she comes.
Because some tell me that thou art a king.
But he shall know I am as good--
Enter OLIVER
Make feasts, invite friends, and proclaim the banns,
The eye of reason may pry in upon us:
Listen, but speak not to't.
And this, Lysander, this Demetrius is,
It is a peerless kinsman.
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met,
Here stands the spring whom you have stain'd with mud,
Do me some service, ere I come to thee.
Not so, an't please your worship.
Beseech you, first go with me to my house,
Exeunt Attendants
with cheer.
Now, by my modesty, a goodly broker!
When no man was his own.
of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he
SCENE IV. Athens. A room in MARK ANTONY's house.
From below your duke to beneath your constable, it
Bear with my weakness, my, brain is troubled:
I prithee, do so.
I thank you, princes, for my daughter's death:
I dare and must deny it. Now I feel
I will keep still with my philosopher.
My honour'd lord.
countenance my mistress.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep,
tuft of earth, fire enough for a flint, pearl enough
Of all be hated, but the most of me!
Come away, servant, come. I am ready now.
Two ships from far making amain to us,
And thereupon give me your daughter.
Humbly I thank your grace.
I' the name of fame and honour, which dies i'
Thy husband he is dead: and for his death
virginity and devours up all the fry it finds.
Makes him oppose himself against his king.
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
He rush'd into my house and took perforce
Indeed, la, 'tis a noble child.
'Tis one Iago, ancient to the general.
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
Our queen and all our elves come here anon.
Use me well in 't. Sister, prove such a wife
Confederates all thus to dishonour me.
Where serpents are, chain me with roaring bears,
And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
Upon the parting of your wives and you.
The fragments, scraps, the bits and greasy relics
What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
No lesser of her honour confident
Sirs, take your places and be vigilant:
What hast thou done?
That doth invert the attest of eyes and ears,
will give you as much as this old man does when the
As he is proud to do't.
I may be negligent, foolish and fearful,
How goes the world, sir, now?
So is the bargain.
any man of quality,--I hope to be saved.
Sit, sir.
I must be gone.
Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
And feed on curds and whey, and suck the goat,
And so I was, which plainly signified
[Aside to her sons]  What say you, boys? will you
Ten, my lord.
I did but tell her she mistook her frets,
Than all you fiery oes and eyes of light.
And craves your company for speedy counsel.
For every storm that blows: I, to bear this,
Even so. Poor men alone? No, no, the noblest deer
Nay, be not angry, I am pleased again.
Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
Do as I bid you, shut doors after you:
Where is this fellow?
our guests? 'tis well they are whispering: clamour
Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky,
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
Good madam, let me see your face.
So may the outward shows be least themselves:
Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops,
Some salve for perjury.
Hath he not pass'd the noble and the common?
To LUCIUS
What is the reason that you use me thus?
To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
With open mouth swallowing a tailor's news,
As I do know the consul's worthiness,
advised him for the entertainment of death.
From both, my lord. Bellario greets your grace.
And my imaginations are as foul
An I cannot, cannot, cannot,
I do beseech you, either not believe
Not a whit, when it jars so.
Unfit for mine own purposes.
Of courts, of princes, of the tricks in war:
Answering before we do demand of them.
I'll do my best
ostler bring my gelding out of the stable. Farewell,
And, waving our red weapons o'er our heads,
Come hither, Isabel.
Fire that's closest kept burns most of all.
Lord Bigot, I am none.
Wearying thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,
Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together,
delivered upon the mellowing of occasion. But the
Now crack thy lungs, and split thy brazen pipe:
Now will he be swinged for reading my letter, an
And not without desert so well reputed.
The foul fiend haunts poor Tom in the voice of a
O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My
And here will Talbot mount, or make his grave.
were pity of my life: no I am no such thing, I am a
together, and fast it fairly out: our cakes dough on
And that would she for twenty thousand more.
The more I hate, the more he follows me.
Have not devised this slander, I'll be hang'd else.
At a superfluous rate!
guests: thou shalt find me tractable to any honest
Of my long weary life is come upon me. Farewell:
Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits.
I am from humble, he from honour'd name,
As I remember, this should be the house.
varied, like a scholar at the least: but, sir, I
That, were my state far worser than it is,
How much I was a braggart. When I told you
congregation, shame her with what he saw o'er night
Ipswich and Oxford! one of which fell with him,
him, nor any way sustain him.
Who, when my heart, all mad with misery,
I am the daughter to King Pericles,
your lordship.
Two things provided more, that, for this favour,
out-paramoured the Turk: false of heart, light of
No had, my lord! why, did you not provoke me?
To die is to be banish'd from myself,
No, bear it with you, lest I come not time enough.
Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.
son? Kings are no less unhappy, their issue not
Why stands he so perplex'd?
Yea, but 'tis like that they will know us by our
Ghost beckons HAMLET
They set upon BANQUO
Enter HORATIO
My ill suspicion. This is your son-in-law,
Will fight with him by sea.
And on my side it is so well apparell'd,
Let me desire your company: he must come,
But by example--O, a sin in war,
daughter with clipping her, now he thanks the old
How now, my lord! why do you keep alone,
damned than to do't?
Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
A way to make us better friends, more known.
I must offend before I be attainted,
Hath banish'd me, his daughter?
Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook.
Mine, full of sorrow and heart's discontent.
We will, my lord.
Shall be their father's bail, and bane to those
This label on my bosom, whose containing
which my nose is in great indignation.
Who died the minute I was born,
house, unless you undertake that with me which with
As is the osprey to the fish, who takes it
You tell us the manner of the wrestling.
And well are worth the want that you have wanted.
therefore never flout at me for what I have said
Have broken with the king, who hath so far
This paper has undone me: 'tis the account
Prescribe not us our duties.
To follow as it draws! I'll to my brother:
Listen to me, and if you speak me fair,
I'll follow you, I'll lead you about a round,
And bids me speak of nothing but despair.
From my great purpose in to-morrow's battle.
Seize upon Fife, give to the edge o' the sword
Father, to arms!
Our hap is loss, our hope but sad despair,
tongue shakes out his master's undoing: to say
not drowned i' the last rain, ha? What sayest
And mark how he continues.
But from Lord Angelo by special charge.
Re-enter FERDINAND, BIRON, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN, in their proper habits
Is fresh about me.
Ay me, poor man, how pale and wan he looks!
The means that makes us strangers!
His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood,
No more of that, I have noted it well. Go you, and
Yet parted but the shadow with his hand.
Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one,
At whose pleasure, friend
was never merry world in England since gentlemen came up.
Shall be struck off.' Hector, what say you to't?
Found out the remedy. How would you be,
Where you shall be an everlasting leiger:
Why, what means this? Why do you look on me?
The swelling difference of your settled hate:
But it becomes me well enough, does't not?
Where their appointment we may best discover,
Have almost stamp'd the leasing: therefore, fellow,
And snatch them straight away? We here below
But yet be wary in thy studious care.
Thy husband.
And for these bitter tears, which now you see
As every loyal subject ought to do.
With Mars fall out, with Juno chide,
points more than all the lawyers in Bohemia can
To wish him wrestle with affection,
Farewell, sweet queen.
Faints
You may look pale, but I should blush, I know,
And your good brethren, I am much beholding,
gone off, look you, and there is gallant and most
Pare thy nails, dad,
I draw the sword myself: take it, and hit
So it may prove an argument of laughter
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
God keep your ladyship still in that mind! so some
What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,
To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
He did oppose his foe:
Bring him his confessor, let him be prepared,
I never heard a passion so confused,
Far more, far more to you do I decline.
Thy valiantness was mine, thou suck'dst it from me,
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
When a gentleman is disposed to swear, it is not for
They sound a parley. Enter two Senators with others on the walls
Lay it by too: another.
By gentlemen at hand.
Ha, ha! keep time: how sour sweet music is,
person, kneeling at our feet, but a weak and
refused, and upon the grief of this suddenly died.
blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
SCENE II. Saint Alban's.
Dared to the combat, in which our valiant Hamlet--
Saw you the cardinal?
What are his words?
care of him.
The happy man, whether defect of judgment,
Thou hast no hands, to wipe away thy tears:
To Theseus must be wedded, and you come
Not to consider in what case thou stand'st,
This peace is nothing, but to rust iron, increase
Exeunt CAPULET and PARIS
What shall I say to thee, Lord Scroop? thou cruel,
Which made me think a man a worm: my son
Of hell would not in reputation change:
Thou noble thing! more dances my rapt heart
Find out, and he will take it.
What other harm have I, good lady, done,
Must your bold verdict enter talk with lords?'
Lead in your ladies, every one: sweet partner,
The yearly course that brings this day about
Will call discreet proceeding.
Shout within. 'A Lancaster! A Lancaster!'
And not unluckily against the bias.
For though mine enemy thou hast ever been,
Willing you to demand your hostages,
O, would the quarrel lay upon our heads,
One of the three to share it?
Exit APEMANTUS
That could stand up his parallel,
'Tis Agamemnon's wish, and great Achilles
her husband, will be from home. Alas! the sweet
Exit
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK, young YORK, QUEEN ELIZABETH, and the DUCHESS OF YORK
His mistress' picture, which by his tongue
But you the best. Pages and lights, to conduct
A laughter.
In further evil?
Come, here's the map: shall we divide our right
Why, there is it: come sing me a bawdy song, make
Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames,
I think, by some odd gimmors or device
That is, a fair young maid that yet wants baptism,
Began a fresh assault.
On him I lay what you would lay on me,
To part the queen's proud kindred from the king.
I'll force thee yield to my desire.
And I'll provide his executioner,
Enter Host and BARDOLPH
nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
Send her another, never give her o'er,
To hear the men deny't. So that, I say,
home full numbers. I find here that Don Peter hath
Didst thou, Alonso, use me and my daughter:
Weep not, sweet queen, for trickling tears are vain.
I am sent with broom before,
Seal up your lips, and give no words but mum:
Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
As if he mock'd himself and scorn'd his spirit
Anon, anon, sir. Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.
Or here I'll cease.
And gave him graceful posture.
And have forsworn you with Hortensio.
And violation of all faith and troth
Enter COSTARD, for Pompey
A curse upon him, die he like a thief,
Nor shall proud Lancaster usurp my right,
His champions are the prophets and apostles,
And thankfully rest debtor for the first.
And in this seat of peace tumultuous wars
Good my lord,
What work is here! Charmian, is this well done?
But what at full I know, thou know'st no part,
Though tongues were out of use.
No, neither.
'Tis not unknown to you, Antonio,
Hear him but reason in divinity,
Or else break out in peevish jealousies,
La, la, la, la! 'nothing doubting,' says he? Alas,
Let not the hours of this ungodly day
Exeunt BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and attendants
But it raises the greater war between him and
Thy mother gave thee when thou suck'dst her breast,
What should the wars do with these jigging fools?
You perpetual-sober gods! I do proclaim
Abused extremely, and to cry 'That's witty!'
SCENE III. The French camp near Dover.
The terms of our estate may not endure
Pray, do not mock me:
not see thy hand.
The noble Scot, Lord Douglas, when he saw
Very ill.
For seeing him I see my life in death.
long spoon.
Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste
without you, especially that of Cleopatra's, which
begged. I have your alms: adieu.
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Enter the DAUPHIN, ORLEANS, RAMBURES, and others
head a gilt copper crown.
Dissentious numbers pestering streets than see
Tell me, moreover, hast thou sounded him,
would tell twenty.
Will very well become a soldier's dance.
He is.
tish ill done, by my hand, tish ill done!
As willingly do I the same resign
Exit
Why, stay, and hear me speak.
Pardon, madam:
when she put 'em i' the paste alive, she knapped 'em
He hath some message to deliver us.
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
father was called Philip of Macedon, as I take it.
Speak on, sir,
And ask him what apparel he will wear,
To get slips of them.
Stands on a tickle point, now they are gone:
Opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt
He must observe their mood on whom he jests,
Why, what art thou?
rejoice in yours.
That's my brave lord!
I will confirm with oath, which, I doubt not,
And I serve the fairy queen,
Sir Proteus, as I take it.
Is your lady come?
Are you the butcher, Suffolk? Where's your knife?
her, she hath such a celerity in dying.
No, this was he, Messala,
Than your own weak-hinged fancy, something savours
you have sworn to me. What, are you gone again?
Any companion in the world but you,
But where there is true friendship, there needs none.
This week he hath been heavy, sour, sad,
He was my master, and I wore my life
With his inducement.
Defy him by the Lord of Westmoreland.
There is no reason but I shall be blind.
There is but one mind in all these men, and it is
Hollow upon this plain, so many hollow factions.
Now, Esperance! Percy! and set on.
Drums, flourish and colours. Enter KING RICHARD II, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, DUKE OF AUMERLE, and Soldiers
give me sight of her, not only bought many presents
To give some labourers room.
Increase your services, so seem as if
speak no more of him, you'll be whipped for taxation
means your grace?
And those who have the wit to claim the place:
You cannot call it love, for at your age
Were never for a piece of beauty rarer,
Of us and those that love you. Best of comfort,
Shall I, for lucre of the rest unvanquish'd,
And as a stranger to my heart and me
phrase,--that had the whole theoric of war in the
Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
follows his own instructions: I can easier teach
A morsel for a monarch: and great Pompey
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
Heaven restore thee!
Did he never make you laugh?
Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy
That such a slave as this should wear a sword,
Or hedge aside from the direct forthright,
By holy Mary, Butts, there's knavery:
To this my fair beloved: therefore, I pray you,
So sweet is zealous contemplation.
Yet am I sick for fear: speak it again,
Cuckoo, cuckoo: O word of fear,
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
Must I then do't to them?
Wherein the pregnant enemy does much.
O, then his lines would ravish savage ears
Enter the Lord Mayor and his train
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
Yea, my lord. How brooks your grace the air,
Then know that I, one Snug the joiner, am
Like a demigod here sit I in the sky.
ACT III
My ships come home a month before the day.
Did I expose myself, pure for his love,
This music crept by me upon the waters,
And down, down, adown-a,  and c.
To the good of your most sacred person and
We talk here in the public haunt of men:
That bears the name of life? Yet in this life
Tester I'll have in pouch when thou shalt lack,
Yet my good will is great, though the gift small.
Razeth your cities and subverts your towns
Stanley, I will requite thy forwardness.
And I had mine!
And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd
SCENE III. The same. A street.
Observe, observe, he's moody.
Paris is gored with Menelaus' horn.
Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs
Ay, ay: you writ them, sir, at my request,
wrangle in when you have nothing else to do.
should find
She says you have some goodly jest in hand:
Be you not troubled with the time, which drives
I have been i' the market-place, and, sir,'tis fit
Exit
Would you have been so brief with him, he would
My lord, for aught I know.
I do desire no more.
Draw them to Tiber banks, and weep your tears
Is't not your trick?
sighing every minute and groaning every hour would
What, a hundred, man?
For my being absent? whereunto I never
labour ill bestowed.
desolate. I see them lay their heads together to
I have drunk but one cup to-night, and that was
gracious Duncan
awake your senses, that you may the better judge.
Every man shift for all the rest, and
Omitting Suffolk's exile, my soul's treasure?
It is well done, and fitting for a princess
Therefore, sweet Proteus, my direction-giver,
natures more than is native to them--list me. The
Which, to preserve mine honour, I'll perform.
That headless man
In framing an artist, art hath thus decreed,
When one but of my ordinance stood up
And now am I, unhappy messenger,
Injurious time now with a robber's haste
raisins o' the sun.
I would I knew thy heart.
And by those fearful objects to prepare
How shall we do for money for these wars?
We'll hear him. Noble Antony, go up.
Since not to be avoided it falls on me.
To cure thy o'er-night's surfeit? Call the creatures
But she is dead.
RICHARD
My riches are these poor habiliments,
There they stand yet, and modestly I think,
Was this fair face the cause, quoth she,
Know man from man? dispute his own estate?
My queen and son are gone to France for aid,
The man that once did sell the lion's skin
knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of
What vane? what weathercock? did you ever hear better?
The readiest way to make the wench amends
pray you, sir, of what disposition was the duke?
The least of which haunting a nobleman
Or art thou base, common and popular?
Exeunt all but ALBANY and EDGAR
I prithee, who?
as much safety you might answer him: therefore, on,
[Reads]  'Fare thee well, and God have mercy upon
Then forth, dear countrymen: let us deliver
Of him that caused it.
That tempts most cunningly: but be not tempted.
To be presented, by your victories,
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
Thou most lying slave,
Is valour misbegot and came into the world
Never, my lord.
And have you nuns no farther privileges?
Worthy Saint Michael and the Golden Fleece,
Look, where he comes!
Tut, Lucius, this was but a deed of charity
Look, when I vow, I weep, and vows so born,
The rest o' the island.
What is his name?
Who from my cabin tempted me to walk
Which obloquy set bars before my tongue,
Action and accent did they teach him there,
rough usage, but my mother, having power of his
Upon himself.
I am doubtful that you have been conjunct
but twelve persons there, is this true?
'nointed over with honey, set on the head of a
To furnish me upon my longing journey.
Enter a Messenger
Or should, or should not, bar us in our claim:
sufficiently manage, must either stay to execute
2. Then, two Judges.
And rather father thee than master thee.
What, was I married to her in my dream?
Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
Look in a glass, and call thy image so:
Or is the adder better than the eel,
Call forth the holy father.
To show my duty in your coronation,
I like thee well: wilt thou forsake thy fortune,
What with the injuries of a wanton time,
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
The eye of majesty.
Augment, or alter, as your wisdoms best
With all the virtues that attend the good,
more of you.
And get our jewels and our wealth together,
The very persons of our noble story
ne'er a tongue in my head. Well, if any man in
Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.
impediment most profitably removed, without the
known you but three days, and already you are no stranger.
But pardon me, I do not in position
Alarum. Enter fighting, Soldiers of both armies, then BRUTUS, CATO, LUCILIUS, and others
hath gelded the commonwealth, and made it an eunuch:
Sorely, to say I did, it is as bitter
Appear in forms more horrid,--yet my duty,
To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
I would not take this from report, it is,
Like a base pander, hold the chamber-door
Exeunt
I mean the Earl of Wiltshire, Bushy, Green.
Like to a censer in a barber's shop:
like my lady your niece: on a forgotten matter we
My gracious prince, and honourable peers,
So please your highness,
and in these degrees have they made a pair of stairs
Ha, ha, ha!
And so I do, and with his gifts present
we cannot with such magnificence--in so rare--I know
Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests,
The gods of Greece protect you!
I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleased to
Let us do so: for we are at the stake,
and yet am ready to famish! These five days have I
I'll kill my horse, because I will not fly.
An heretic, an arch one, Cranmer, one
Stirr'd up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Ely,
Follow Fluellen closely at the heels:
In an imperial charge. But I shall crave
Brought hither in a most unlucky hour,
Hear me, my liege:
You have respected, stopp'd your ears against
Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot.
marvel where Troilus is. Hark! do you not hear the
Give me a note: your ladyship can set.
He is complete in feature and in mind
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
Like an unseasonable stormy day,
I will not slay thee, but I'll drive thee back:
But thou hast sworn against religion,
Let's along.
Here's a young lad framed of another leer:
Because so well I love Lucentio.
Until it wither with me to my grave
PINDARUS ascends the hill
So will this base and envious discord breed.
O, how, how?
No.
Dishonour not your mothers, now attest
You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
Hath nobly held, our sever'd navy too
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Myself disgraced, and the nobility
O, that your young nobility could judge
by boy, servant by servant: the tithe of a hair
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
[Reads]  Item, A capon,. . 2s. 2d.
O hateful hands, to tear such loving words!
I will see you hanged, like clotpoles, ere I come
Silence is the perfectest herald of joy: I were
kinsman, live unbruised and love my cousin.
Construe my speeches better, if you may.
Opposed to  hinder me, should stop my way,
I will do't, but yet she is a goodly creature.
I am as poor as you.
O, no, good Kate, neither art thou the worse
Gallants, I am not as I have been.
Is this the way?
Ill blows the wind that profits nobody.
Farewell, my gracious lord, I'll to my castle.
Farewell, good Salisbury, and good luck go with thee!
Calpurnia's cheek is pale, and Cicero
To have bereft a prince of all his fortunes,
complement and ceremony of it. But are you
Exeunt
It is a purposed thing, and grows by plot,
I'll give thee a wind.
I will wink on her to consent, my lord, if you will
That honour which shall bate his scythe's keen edge
To worthy danger and deserved death.
That to close prison he commanded her,
upon no trail, never trust me when I open again.
And so by many winding nooks he strays
Had you not been their father, these white flakes
Does not become a man: 'tis much to blame.
Who holds his state at door, 'mongst pursuivants,
Their liberties are now in arms, a precedent
reception of King, Princess, Lords,  and c.
Enter KENT, GLOUCESTER, and EDMUND
I have not long to trouble thee. Good Griffith,
antique, or firework. Now, understanding that the
good troth,
There's in him stuff that puts him to these ends,
[Aside to MISTRESS QUICKLY]  'Tis a great charge to
But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
Because they speak no English, thus they pray'd
That same villain, Romeo.
I will unfold some causes of your deaths.
In some large measure to thy father's death,
See, Lucius, see how much she makes of thee:
Come hither, captain.
I'll kill thee every where, yea, o'er and o'er.
Deliver them this paper: having read it,
[Aside]  But better, indeed, when you hold your peace.
And I could sing, would weeping do me good,
I pray you all, tell me what they deserve
And here receive we from our father Stanley
Shall I have justice? what says Jupiter?
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
And to rebuke the usurpation
Therefore Heaven Nature charged
And says a wizard told him that by G
Exeunt
But God in mercy so deal with my soul,
If you refuse it,--as, in love and zeal,
And by my side wear steel? then, Lucifer take all!
The mirth o' the feast. Or I'll be thine, my fair,
I hear there is an overture of peace.
Upon my faith and honour.
If she deny, Lord Hastings, go with him,
Knows at what time to promise, when to pay.
Sweet sir, much better than I was, I can stand and
The children thus disposed, my wife and I,
O happy horse, to bear the weight of Antony!
'Faith, some certain dregs of conscience are yet
With other vile and ignominious terms:
To view the artillery and munition,
knowing what hath passed between you and Claudio.
To stubborn critics, apt, without a theme,
Good argument, I hope, we will not fly--
You are a great deal abused in too bold a
I am a poor fellow, sir.
I thank your grace,
Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow.
By earth, she is not, corporal, there you lie.
To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood
That, having this obtain'd, you presently
Marry, God forbid! the boy was the very staff of my
I will oppose his fate. Our force by land
Tears our recountments had most kindly bathed,
You shall have none ill, sir, for I'll try if they
How smooth and even they do bear themselves!
And all things answerable to this portion.
I pray you, be acquainted with this maid,
Who's gone this morning?
Enter TITUS ANDRONICUS, with Hunters,  and c., MARCUS, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
Well met, Mistress Page. Whither go you?
Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath:
Both, both, my lord.
Can you do it?
Ay, sir, all this is so: but why
To tread a measure with you on this grass.
To those that know me. Come, love and health to all,
As jewels purchased at an easy price,
further warrant: go but with me to-night, you shall
Which had you rather, that the most just law
By my troth, 's but a night-gown in respect of
Some parcels of their power are forth already,
Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
God save his majesty!
Be you remember'd, Marcus, she's gone, she's fled.
Will you yet hold? How came my man i' the stocks?
Who commands them, sir?
Go we to our tent:
Thou gavest me poison: dangerous fellow, hence!
He does it under name of perfect love,
desire your more acquaintance, good Master
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
Heaven is my judge, not I for love and duty,
ram-tender, to offer to have his daughter come into
Your bidding shall I do effectually.
O, I cry you mercy, you are the singer: I will say
Exeunt
Great thanks, great Pompey.
Not so, even through the hollow eyes of death
For soldiers' stomachs always serve them well.
And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
Sir, much like
Give me my armour.
If I name thee.
To NESTOR
And says that once more I shall interchange
Cold news for me, for I had hope of France,
Arm'd, say you?
Here alarum, they are beaten back by the English with great loss. Re-enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER
Exit
That can therein tax any private party?
But, to Orlando: did he leave him there,
I say she never did invent this letter,
Pat, pat, and here's a marvellous convenient place
And wear my dagger with the braver grace,
Prosper you, sweet sir!
am a villain: and yet you will stand to if, you will
Were testimonies against his worth and credit
You do look, my son, in a moved sort,
A herald, ho, a herald!
Avoid then, fiend! what tell'st thou me of supping?
O, no doubt, my good friends, but the gods
Tell me how it came this night
Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground,
And would not, but in fury, fright my youth:
Reads
How long her face is drawn? how pale she looks,
And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
Alas, he faints! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
These four will change habits, and present the other five.
This night englutted! Who is not Timon's?
Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up,
For we intend so to dispose you as
he could not compass.
Be it so, Lysander: find you out a bed,
Whate'er occasion keeps him from us now.
Both you and I, for Romeo is exiled:
mistress fallen out.
Well, I will thither.
For that I was his father Edward's son,
SCENE I. Paris. The KING's palace.
And carry with us ears and eyes for the time,
diffidences, banishment of friends, dissipation
This note doth tell me of ten thousand French
May prove effects. Back, Edmund, to my brother,
Shall pass his quarter, or offend the stream
I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
Exeunt all except TROILUS and ULYSSES
Was this before the king return'd?
[Aside]  I scarce know how.
True, and therefore women, being the weaker vessels,
Purpose return. Why hast thou gone so far,
I have seen better faces in my time
Have done, have done, here comes the gentleman.
Even when you please, since you will have it so.
Apt, liable to be employ'd in danger,
All other doubts, by time let them be clear'd:
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
And I accept the combat willingly.
Your special mandate for the state-affairs
O, Apemantus, you are welcome.
If I should tell my history, it would seem
I will desist,
is herself in the tub.
Never went with his forces into France
Sir, I say to you we are none.
I shower a welcome on ye, welcome all.
all conveniency than suppliest me with the least
Galen is but empiricutic, and, to this preservative,
Than dangerous to me: to Aufidius thus
What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia,--
Have too much blood in him.
Prithee, peace:
I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord's
That tide will stay me longer than I should.
To make it clear, but do confess I have
with consolation, your old smock brings forth a new
Fie, treacherous hue, that will betray with blushing
Yet, God before, tell him we will come on,
And now to London with triumphant march,
In token of which duty, if he please,
my intelligence is true, my jealousy is reasonable.
How thou lovest us, show in our brother's welcome,
And he that is approved in this offence,
where, if thou fear to strike and to make me certain
'Couple a gorge!'
Sir Toby Belch! how now, Sir Toby Belch!
Here's yet some liquor left.
When he would force it? Sure, it is no sin,
To achieve her! how?
But I'll deceive you in another sort,
And fit it with such furniture as suits
At a word, I am not.
Good word nor look: what, are my deeds forgot?
churchyard,
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:
Metheglin, wort, and malmsey: well run, dice!
A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
My wife kill'd too?
I know no news, my lord.
own part, I am, as they say, but to parfect one man
Hum! I guess at it.
I grant it, for thine own, whate'er it be.
And you are well met, Signior Hortensio.
That from pay mutest conscience to my tongue
good boy, by the Lord, so they call me, and when I
For breathing in their faces, beat the ground
Exeunt
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
Awake, awake!
And I will look on both indifferently,
Exeunt
As poisonous-tongued as handed, hath prevail'd
Oft have you heard me wish for such an hour,
Silvia, I speak to you, and you, Sir Thurio,
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
The king my brother shall have note of this.
The impression of keen whips I'ld wear as rubies,
Nay,
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH
So be it, for it cannot be but so.
All hail, Macbeth, thou shalt be king hereafter!
His weary joints would gladly rise, I know,
So much unsettled: this drives me to entreat you
What, man! more water glideth by the mill
Of thy deep duty more impression show
Augustus lives to think on't: and so much
Enter AENEAS
Bring in the admiration, that we with thee
What, is my Richard both in shape and mind
Unreconciliable, should divide
The hand of death hath raught him.
Is it but this,--a tardiness in nature
I humbly do beseech you of your pardon
That never knew but better, is some burden:
How now, how now! how go maidenheads? Here, you
smutch'd thy nose?
Of whom so often I have heard renown,
thou art a man!
Relent, and save your souls.
Let me be ignorant, and in nothing good,
The sums I have collected shall express.
A thing divine, for nothing natural
In recompense whereof he hath married her.
A riding-suit, no costlier than would fit
harm, save to his bed-clothes about him, but they
To bring again these foolish runaways.
Well said, well said, the fire and cloths.
She sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies,
A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
innocency Adam fell, and what should poor Jack
I will weary you then no longer with idle talking.
have loved thyself better now. What man didst thou
To whom the foragers shall all repair,
I can no other answer make but thanks,
He's worth no more
everything that thou wilt have me.
Here have we war for war and blood for blood,
In high-born words the worth of many a knight
Do you know me, my lord?
Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
They love me well, yet I have much to do
'Gainst me, that I cannot take peace with:
Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
Concerning the French journey: I replied,
Look here, I throw my infamy at thee
Good morrow, neighbour Gremio.
Once name you derogately, when to sound your name
What would you with the princess?
Sends word of all that haps in Tyre:
Exit ALEXAS
This head of safety, and withal to pry
Black, fearful, comfortless and horrible.
Ah, boy, if any life be left in thee,
Endured of her, for whom you bid like sorrow.
Is like to lay upon us.
At chamber--door? and one as great as you are?
His man with scissors nicks him like a fool,
Swearing allegiance and the love of soul
These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
Heaven make you better than your thoughts!
Men all in fire walk up and down the streets.
Seese is not good to give putter, your belly is all putter.
prove you a fool.
My heart beats thicker than a feverous pulse,
Because I cannot flatter and speak fair,
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
'Tis here!
nor never break for urging. If thou canst love a
And when that hour o'erslips me in the day
Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties
Re-enter FALSTAFF
Doth choke the air with dust: in, and prepare:
be souls must be saved, and there be souls must not be saved.
That you shall all repent the loss of mine:
And does he think so backwardly of me now,
him so pictured: you must either be directed by
Though to no use but still to look on you!
And I am come to seek that name in England,
Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished,
poverty of her, the small acquaintance, my sudden
There lies your love.
His brother and yours, abide all three distracted
Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.
looking wildly, and would needs speak with you presently.
Shall be brought drunken forth, and I shall see
Your daughter here the princes left for dead:
Marry, is it, the very point of it, to Mistress Anne Page.
Enter LAUNCELOT and JESSICA
Away, sir! you must go.
Bounteous madam,
My lips are no common, though several they be.
To thee I pray, sweet Clifford, pity me!
And both are ready in their offices,
I mean to stride your steed, and at all times
Call it so.
Four days will quickly steep themselves in night,
lady within?
I mother, wife, and yet his child.
and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
Noble lady!
Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
And will not wrong it.
That were I ta'en here it would scarce be answer'd.
Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides:
Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day
I would relieve her. Had you that craft, to reave
What studied torments, tyrant, hast for me?
The shame which here it suffers.
Enter GOWER
And hang thee o'er my tomb when I am dead:
Is straight and slender and as brown in hue
An you love me, let's do't: I am dog at a catch.
And that thou oft provokest, yet grossly fear'st
Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays,
for, we shall be flouting, we cannot hold.
Mates, maid! how mean you that? no mates for you,
Burthen Ding-dong
admiration, though the catalogue of his endowments
And she is fair too, is she not?
Is that one of the four complexions?
First hang the child, that he may see it sprawl,
Hark!
Now blessed be the great Apollo!
In solemn show attend this funeral,
What an exchange had this been without boot! What
Yet looks he like a king: behold, his eye,
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
marry, and amen! Give me a cup of sack, boy. Ere I
pavilion in the posteriors of this day, which the
precious diamond that is, nor you the lady.
And speak between the change of man and boy
Enter VERNON and BASSET
That for my surety will refuse the boys!
And natural graces that extinguish art,
A man that loves not me, nor none of you.
Stubborn to justice, apt to accuse it, and
O sweet Paulina,
Not a whit, Touchstone: those that are good manners
To lie that way thou go'st, not whence thou comest:
[Awaking]  Yes, sir, to Milford-Haven, which is
And I should rob the deathsman of his fee,
Not wounding, pity would not let me do't,
There, where your argosies with portly sail,
Why, be so still, here's nobody will steal that from
brother till you can derive from him better
Must I be comforted, not in his sphere.
Let's see your piece.
As chimney-sweepers, come to dust.
Walk with Leonine, the air is quick there,
By these gloves, then, 'twas he.
Such as I am: though for myself alone
SCENE V. Court before the same.
Here is Got's plessing, and your friend, and Justice
will serve, for once we stood up about the corn, he
nearest, buried a wife, mourned for her, writ to my
But know not how to do it.
So will I	if he come under my hatches, I'll never
Reads
Will shun no course to keep them from the light.
O, let us pay the time but needful woe,
Happy be you!
But this cannot continue.
The due of honour in no point omit.
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
From son to son, some four or five descents
The innocent mansion of my love, my heart,
To come in to the cry without more help.
And we are for the dark.
But is a-weary of thy common sight,
Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut
Must be as 'tis. My gentle babe Marina, whom,
Let death and honesty
About their functions friendly.
Nay, we shall heat you thoroughly anon.
themselves without the verse and therefore stood
How fares our noble uncle, Lancaster?
Is as a meeting of the petty gods,
to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a
And make a pastime of each weary step,
Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?
My lord, this would not be believed in Venice,
Now, Titinius! Now some light. O, he lights too.
And if thou tell'st the heavy story right,
His steeds to water at those springs
They will, then, ere't be long.
How now, sweet queen!
To offend, and judge, are distinct offices
The cardinal!
Join'd in commission with him, but either
time of lethargy I picked and cut most of their
If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me:
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
'Twere needful I denied it. My affairs
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
To him, father.
Was by a beggar-woman stolen away,
He is a great observer and he looks
I hear as good exclamation on your worship as of any
Come, come.
son of a whore fight for a whore, he tempts judgment:
Beating him
Suffolk's imperial tongue is stern and rough,
Were publicly enthroned: at the feet sat
the report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this
Buy thou a rope and bring it home to me.
of sugar, five pound of currants, rice,--what will
Show'd like a rebel's whore: but all's too weak:
Patience awhile, good Cassio. Come, come,
A man of great authority in France,
hand into the bed and felt them, and they were as
Titania waked and straightway loved an ass.
Blessing upon you!
Or four and twenty times the pilot's glass
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
My very heart at root.
I thank thee, good Tubal: good news, good news!
I say, I am your mother.
punishment. And also, the watch heard them talk of
be a sinner, honest water, which ne'er left man i' the mire:
The skull that bred them in the sepulchre.
Dog!
Enter FALSTAFF, Host, BARDOLPH, NYM, PISTOL, and ROBIN
I was moved withal.
That being dead, like to the bullet's grazing,
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May,
yet, to crush this a little, it would bow to me, for
They stared, and were distracted, no man's life
If you choose that wherein I am contain'd,
He dies, we lose, I break my warlike word,
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
But not possess'd it, and, though I am sold,
Enter Nurse, to the chamber
Fit to govern!
Fading in music: that the comparison
Then his good report should have been my son, I
Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But
Unto the body of a dismal yew,
Which weighs upon the heart?
trencher, hence!
And thou, O wall, O sweet, O lovely wall,
Deliver up my title in the queen
In such an honour named. What's more to do,
reputation, or bid farewell to your good life for ever.
O you hard hearts, you cruel men of Rome,
Music plays. DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS places them hand in hand
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
So cowards fight when they can fly no further,
What good condition can a treaty find
Thinking to bar thee of succession, as
He will recover straight: when he is gone,
And, stickler-like, the armies separates.
Come, sister, you shall be the priest and marry us.
Spur them to ruthful work, rein them from ruth.
'Tis bargain'd 'twixt us twain, being alone,
Therefore the moon, the governess of floods,
In your fine frame hath love no quality?
Ay, Proteus, but that life is alter'd now:
Not her own sinews. To end a tale of length,
Dead in his bed, my lord, Gloucester is dead.
I could give better comfort than you do.
Remember what I have said.
And we in negligent danger. Cheer your heart,
As I do think, to-morrow.
Why, I will see thee at Philippi, then.
and so locks her in embracing, as if she would pin
Not by my consent, I promise you. The gentleman is
earth. Would it not grieve a woman to be
Was ever book containing such vile matter
'Yea,' let them say, to stick the heart of falsehood,
Here's a knocking indeed! If a
good parts, a secret and villanous contriver against
[Within]  If thy name be call'd Luce--Luce, thou hast
I thank thee, Varrius, thou hast made good haste:
Something too wildly and my father's precepts
honour be witness, that no want of resolution in me.
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
Shall be my recreation: so long as nature
I will take order for her keeping close.
My woes end likewise with the evening sun.
urine. Lechery, sir, it provokes, and unprovokes,
Nor the all-dreaded thunder-stone,
He hath refused it in the open court:
As you like this, give me the lie another time.
ship boring the moon with her main-mast, and anon
Oui, vraiment.
Lame, foolish, crooked, swart, prodigious,
I am about, let them depart.
make noise enough.
Ghost
Ah, York, no man alive so fain as I!
Enter LAUNCE, leading a dog
But always hath been just and virtuous
The table's full.
Of many faces, eyes and hearts,
Companion, hence!
What is your pleasure?
He was as rattling thunder. For his bounty,
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
With the dear love I bear to fair Anne Page,
I pray you, speak not, he grows worse and worse,
I am resolved for death or dignity.
company, and our devices known. In the meantime I
And raise his issue, like a loving sire,
I am glad you're well.
No, my good lord.
He will hear none: he hath evermore had the liberty
Woe, that too late repents,--
Enter a Messenger
In simple and pure soul I come to you.
Would scour these English hence? Hear'st thou of them?
this, dies instantly, I have seen her die twenty
Therefore know thou, for this I entertain thee.
Vouchsafe to speak my thanks and my obedience,
Ay, there's the point, sir.
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Thou comest not, Caius, now for tribute that
But conquer'd merely.
Come hither, sirrah, I must examine thee: what is thy name?
And hearten those that fight in your defence:
Whose worst was, that the noble Mortimer,
That thou, residing here, go'st yet with me,
I know what 'tis to love,
motions: if it be my luck, so, if not, happy man be
Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
That's a fault that water will mend.
not with fifty of them, I am a bunch of radish: if
false report of him.
Entreat you to your wonted furtherance?
And our induction full of prosperous hope.
But pity her.
Not so fair, boy, as well-favoured.
Is thine and my poor country's to command:
A gentleman of Tyre, my name, Pericles,
Rush on his host, as doth the melted snow
Is fashion'd for the journey, dull and heavy.
Exit from the walls
Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee
Sing willow, willow, willow,
Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you
Shall I not live to be avenged on her?
storms and tempests than almanacs can report: this
I will confess to you that I love him.
goes to the wars, to grace himself at his return
That you might know it, would much better please me
I come to pierce it, or to give thee mine.
If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life.
There is no better way than that they spoke of.
By the defiling of her parent's bed,
Here, youth, there is my purse, I give thee this
He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
Bid her alight,
About a prophecy, which says that 'G'
'Twixt Guynes and Arde:
Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her,
Should I not curse them. Poison be their drink!
A stranger Pyramus than e'er played here.
Enter PROSPERO above, invisible. Enter several  strange Shapes, bringing in a banquet,  they dance about it with gentle actions of  salutation, and, inviting the King,  and c. to eat, they depart
I cannot speak, nor think
If he were dead, what would betide of me?
I'll haste the writer and withal
How he refell'd me, and how I replied,--
Become the touches of sweet harmony.
Pitchers have ears.
Must lave our honours in these flattering streams,
Not separated with the racking clouds,
Speak suddenly, my lords, are we all friends?
I'll make one in a dance, or so, or I will play
Pray you, sir, deliver me this paper.
No, sir: yet oft,
derive me ill will to speak of, therefore I will not
ANTIPHOLUS
But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out.
Will have a wild trick of his ancestors.
This is strange.
Teem with new monsters, whom thy upward face
Alarum within. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX, with Attendants, meeting a bleeding Sergeant
Or lowly factor for another's gain,
About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
O, give me leave, I have deluded you:
I had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
Mecaenas, ask Agrippa.
She'll close and be herself, whilst our poor malice
Did I offend your highness.
I will not believe such a Cataian, though the priest
Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake?
And brings the dire occasion in his arms
Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine,
Enter PISANIO and IACHIMO
Meet me and Gratiano
An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst
O, my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
Should not produce fair issue.
Or as the Destinies decree.
Some wine, ho!
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
Fairies, begone, and be all ways away.
Poor ignorant baubles!-- upon our terrible seas,
Why, let her except, before excepted.
I'll give you leave to powder me and eat me too
Help us to sigh and groan,
Your father's wife did after wedlock bear him,
I tell you, 'tis incredible to believe
Farewell, Monsieur Traveller: look you lisp and
Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin.
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
virtue seek
In leads or oils? what old or newer torture
And liberal largess, are grown somewhat light,
Did steal behind him as he lay along
Ay, all of them at Bristol lost their heads.
What, all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes
To public ear:
For selfsame wind that I should speak withal
become of the wenching rogues? I think they have
[Kneeling]
He shall not live.
Is it possible disdain should die while she hath
'I would be consul,' says he: 'aged custom,
The faiths of men ne'er stained with revolt,
I shall, sir. Fare you well.
SCENE I. A room in POLONIUS' house.
And yet the end of all is bought thus dear,
would drown myself for the love of a guinea-hen, I
And next his throat unto the butcher's knife.
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
man here to school. Look, where his master comes,
Of Bolingbroke: their fortunes both are weigh'd:
You're welcome: what's your will?
Rest on my word, and let not discontent
I do entreat your grace to pardon me.
played the Jack with us.
Thou dost thy office fairly. Turn thee back.
Enter BALTHASAR with Music
trial: wherein if I be foiled, there is but one
no wit, manners, nor honesty, but to gabble like
That heaven hath infused them with these spirits,
A law-breaker, a villain: yield thee, thief.
Here pitch our battle, hence we will not budge.
Jeweller:	If he will touch the estimate: but, for that--
Then after to her father will I break,
Why she dares not come over to thee.
First, a very excellent good-conceited thing,
Out of our question wipe him.
Enter EDGAR disguised as a mad man
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Turn out that eyeless villain, throw this slave
You sunburnt sicklemen, of August weary,
Good Lord! you use this dalliance to excuse
Seeking sweet favours from this hateful fool,
Exeunt DOGBERRY and VERGES
If they not thought the profits of my death
was in the basket!
I am too young, I pray you, pardon me.'
They think my little stomach to the war
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
This is not much.
Be stronger with thee than the name of wife?
An hour by his dial. O noble fool!
Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
That which my daughter came to look upon,
If you have victory, let the trumpet sound
Please you dismiss me either with 'ay' or 'no.'
sorrows I might be some allay, or I o'erween to
How now, masters!
As his composure must be rare indeed
That so the shadows be not unappeased,
To pry into the secrets of the state,
Denied my house for his, me for his wife.
I may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo
Set down by the poll?
For she is good, hath brought you forth a daughter,
No, not a word, how can I grace my talk,
I stretch it out for that word 'broad,' which added
I humbly thank him, and I thank you all.
Perchance, Iago, I will ne'er go home.
Your voices: for your voices I have fought,
Come, brother John, full bravely hast thou flesh'd
O, my offence is rank it smells to heaven,
Will answer our hope in issue of a king,
the hunter, attends thee at the orchard-end:
I left him well.
Stay, Whitmore, for thy prisoner is a prince,
Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd.
The truth and innocence of this poor fellow,
Exit an Attendant
By her election may be truly read
I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
A tower'd citadel, a pendent rock,
You see, her eyes are open.
We freely cope your courteous pains withal.
And rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate.
voice bode no mischief. I had as lief have heard the
letter! Abhorred villain! Unnatural, detested,
Good boy, in Virgo's lap, give it Pallas.
sure, they are bastards to the English, the French
of his face sours ripe grapes: when he walks, he
Neither, my lord.
What is your will?
SCENE II. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Wept bitterly, and would I might be dead
My life and education both do learn me
Than honesty to honesty engaged,
But when the duke is slain, they'll quickly fly.
'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good, and
Unto the appetite and affection common
Enter the COUNTESS and her Porter
Be friends awhile and both conjointly bend
'Ware pencils, ho! let me not die your debtor,
How I have govern'd our determined jest?
I laugh to see your ladyship so fond
not. But, truly, these same whoreson devils do the
I bear i' the state, and nature does require
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Had answer'd him.
A most unnoble swerving.
Then were it certain you were not so bad
Good night.
Enter PISTOL and Hostess
Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
Of every wind that blows.
Some little memory of me will stir him--
Ten and eleven. Woman, commend me to her, I will
Where, where? Art thou come? why, my cheese, my
All three of them are desperate: their great guilt,
Falling on his sword
We'll see your trinkets here all forthcoming.
paper-mill. It will be proved to thy face that thou
Had nature lent thee but thy mother's look,
I was too young that time to value her,
like 'em: I could wish my best friend at such a feast.
Come, boy, and go with me: thy sight is young,
He doth, my lord, and is become your foe.
And you have slander'd nature in my form,
Sit down, sweet niece: brother, sit down by me.
According to my bond, nor more nor less.
were cast away before us even now.
These sovereign thrones, are all supplied, and fill'd
particular duties afterwards.
Enter GLOUCESTER
But come thy ways, well go along together,
Give order to my servants that they take
From a resolved and honourable war,
Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
He came alive to land.
And therefore is the glorious planet Sol
At the queen's be't: 'good' should be pertinent
Must strike her sail and learn awhile to serve
But they shall find, awaked in such a kind,
Would I were in an alehouse in London! I would give
How many fond fools serve mad jealousy!
Re-enter CLEOMENES and others, with FLORIZEL and PERDITA
Comes from my love. But I do see you're moved:
And then I would no other company.
Who's there? my Lord AEneas! By my troth,
That cures us both. I am much sorry, sir,
If I do die before thee prithee, shroud me
Who, with dagger of lath,
I do but beg a little changeling boy,
I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon
I fear the power of Percy is too weak
And the imperial votaress passed on,
Alas, three of Master Ford's brothers watch the door
Where lies thy grief, O, tell me, good Dumain?
Did grace our hollow parting with a tear.
well, and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect
For in my youth I never did apply
Culling the principal of all the deer.
Wisdom! to leave his wife, to leave his babes,
The gates are open, let us enter too.
Lucius!
And look upon, as if the tragedy
Come, then, for with a wound I must be cured.
Yes, my lord, yes, he at Philippi kept
Edward the Fourth, by the grace of God, king of
My fancy to your eyes: when I consider
Pay him six thousand, and deface the bond,
To send me packing with an host of men:
My red dominical, my golden letter:
of.
Thoughts tending to content flatter themselves
The duke himself, and the magnificoes
virgin crimson of modesty, if she deny the
SCENE V. The same.
hear my lord speak: pray ye, go, there's my key:
And am well studied for a liberal thanks
As the most noble corse that ever herald
What sayst thou? did the Duke of York say he was
Be by some certain king purged and deposed.
king, and the dukes: it is no time to discourse. The
And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought,--
Dispatched! I'll make the best in Gloucestershire
I swear again, I would not be a queen
And I beseech you, let not his report
to be drowned and go without her.
Hark, I will tell you what our sport shall be.
Which all too much I have bestow'd on thee.
Speak to me home, mince not the general tongue:
quotidian of love upon him.
France should have torn and rent my very heart,
Speak of me as I am, nothing extenuate,
Of thine affairs, as well as thou of mine?
I think, or in any religion.
And when my face is fair, you shall perceive
Belike your lordship takes us then for fools,
Upon example, so the spirit is eased:
I do not like this fooling.
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
Because thy flinty heart, more hard than they,
It shall be what o'clock I say it is.
What, drunk with choler? stay and pause awhile:
Exit
'Tis good. Go to the gate, somebody knocks.
Lords, view these letters full of bad mischance.
Still live they and for ever may they last!
The issue of the next son should have reign'd.
SCENE III. The same. ANTONIO's house.
Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind.
sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry.
My mind's not on't, you are too hard for me.
Four days ago.
Your lady being so easy.
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
And gives memorial dainty kisses to it,
Was graft with crab-tree slip, whose fruit thou art,
What company, at what expense, and finding
tale shall put you down. Then did we two set on you
Why, she's a devil, a devil, the devil's dam.
And not be cheque'd.
the shearers, three-man-song-men all, and very good
For mine own part, I breathe free breath. I have
Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
To grace this latter age with noble deeds.
osiers bow'd.
The patterns that by God and by French fathers
And here the smug and silver Trent shall run
Let Antony and Caesar fall together.
Who bates mine honour shall not know my coin.
And I am sent expressly to your lordship.
dialogue between the fool and the soldier? Come,
Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
That man should be at woman's command, and yet no
No man must know.
Is creeping toward me, how far off, how near,
Thereof the raging fire of fever bred,
One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
Prefer you to his daughter. Frame yourself
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly,
I'll make my will then, and, as sick men do
That's mercy, but too much security:
horse, and she would have me as a beast: not that, I
But being watch'd that it may still go right!
But with such general warranty of heaven
Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress,
Half won is match well made, match, and well make it,
So well I know my duty to my elders.
Upon this jump.
Trust me, I am glad on't.
Flourish
And that which most with you should safe my going,
Gracious my lord,
Between our kingdoms and our royal selves,
lay my countenance to pawn, I have grated upon my
Fell by our servants, by those men we loved most,
Is more vindicative than jealous love:
Report the feature of Octavia, her years,
I think your highness saw this many a day.
Lord Talbot, do not so dishonour me:
These dead men's tombs.
To cheque his reign, but they will cherish it,
Re-enter IAGO, with a light
I am gone for ever.
And it shall privilege him from your hands
And there he blasts the tree and takes the cattle
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
The king has gone beyond me: all my glories
What's here?
To show how quaint an orator you are:
I hope so.
You envy my advancement and my friends':
He that is strucken blind cannot forget
Peace, lady! pause, or be more temperate:
And in their rage, I having hold of both,
They are but Lewis and Warwick: I am Edward,
Contend not, sir, for we are gentlemen
Or what is worst will follow.
That I do hate thee and love Helena.
Lay hold upon him: if he do resist,
No: first shall war unpeople this my realm,
The liquid drops of tears that you have shed
What have you lost by losing of this day?
Nay, that shall not serve your turn, that shall not,
And these fresh nymphs encounter every one
Of Albany's and Cornwall's powers you heard not?
'Tis so, be sure of it.
Serving-Men	Open the gates unto the lord protector,
SCENE I. Verona. An open place.
Enter SUFFOLK
be sworn, but love may transform me to an oyster, but
They will, they will, God knows,
Your royal fleet far off.
Dies
Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester's tomb?
The air bites shrewdly, it is very cold.
And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate,
Now, the gods crown thee!
Bade me rely on him as on my father,
And venture maidenhead for't, and so would you,
Helen, the mother of great Constantine,
And bid him come and banquet at thy house,
vouchsafe me.
If any order might be thought upon.
Pray, sir, by your good favour,--for surely, sir, a
Be large in mirth, anon we'll drink a measure
Where 'tis predominant, and 'tis powerful, think it,
With her companion grief must end her life.
O, but, sir,
And that my master slew him.
That's certain: I, for my part, knew the tailor
What lady would you choose to assail?
That hath been breeder of these dire events.
Within the book and volume of my brain,
As birds do, mother.
And I can teach thee, coz, to shame the devil
Ay, if thou wilt say 'ay' to my request,
The Duke of York commends him to your majesty.
Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER, attended
mistress to carry me in the name of foul clothes to
There were none principal, they were all like one
Until your lordship came to see his death,
Now is it manhood, wisdom and defence,
quickly: she'll make you amends, I warrant you.
SCENE V. The Tower of London.
Prithee, man, look cheerly. These old fellows
Ay, that's well known:
Nay, that's certain.
And raught not to five weeks when he came to
My daughter's mother thinks it with her soul.
What manner of fellow was he that robbed you?
And, sheriff, I will engage my word to thee
should sing.
The view of earthly glory: men might say,
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Exit
Who  but to-day hammer'd of this design,
Then you, belike, suspect these noblemen
Mark'd for the gallows, lay your weapons down,
Now, for my life, the knave doth court my love:
just and his quarrel honourable.
Ingrateful Rome requites with foul contempt,
I know not, madam.
He's safe for these three hours.
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
So long as I could see.
My wife! my wife! what wife? I have no wife.
Stay, lords and gentlemen, and pluck no more,
auricular assurance have your satisfaction, and
God save the king! Will no man say amen?
But many a many foot of land the worse.
My way is now to hie home to his house,
They saw we had a purpose of defence.
mouth too.
On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
Philip of France, if thou be pleased withal,
That they shall think we are accomplished
But for these instances.
That's good, 'mobled queen' is good.
with life that I will sue to be rid of it.
O, yes, my lord, he wore his beaver up.
So much commend itself, you shall be ours:
has pray his Pible well, dat he is no come: by gar,
Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him,
Shall not in their issue stand,
look you, and bid me eat my leek: it was in place
Be gladded in't by me: then follows, that
I must aboard to-morrow.
Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave,
troth, we that have good wits have much to answer
Four hundred twenty-six, and Charles the Great
Enter Pirates
I say, a devil. Thinkest thou, Hortensio, though
How now, how now, mad wag! what, in thy quips and
These accusations and these grievous crimes
A friendly eye could never see such faults.
Good madam,--
O Lord, I must laugh!
Being free from vainness and self-glorious pride,
They know not how their wits to wear,
I will, my lord. Come on, sirrah, off with your
I know his lordship is but merry with me,
Exeunt
Aside
had as lief be wooed of a snail.
Go, go, poor soul, I envy not thy glory
Then, Bolingbroke, as low as to thy heart,
In what safe place you have bestow'd my money,
To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose,
He had his part of it, let him pay.
None.
now she sings in heaven.
Come, go with us, speak fair: you may salve so,
'Tis that he sent me of the duke's return:
Mistress Anne, yourself shall go first.
Where did you find it, then?
For what offence?
That's soon perform'd, because I am a subject.
Walk here i' the orchard, I'll bring her straight.
Persuade me to the murder of your lordship,
Now, sir, have I met you again? there's for you.
God-den, our neighbours.
My lords, if not for any parts in him--
possible, on such a sudden, you should fall into so
Their deer to the stand o' the stealer, and 'tis gold
For it was bad enough before their spite.
Brags of his substance, not of ornament:
So is he now in execution
Enter DEMETRIUS and PHILO
Whose voices I desire aloud with mine:
Come, Lucius, come, stay not to talk with them.
First, her bedchamber,--
Signior Benedick that said so.
Very well, my lord.
Or I will fill the house with armed men,
thou entreat for her. If you be a true lover,
This man, lady, hath robbed many beasts of their
a bird? who would give a bird the lie, though he cry
censure worse than drunkards.
Welcome, good Cambio.
PAULINA draws a curtain, and discovers HERMIONE standing like a statue
His business more material.
ANTIPHOLUS
No common wind, no customed event,
Enter SALISBURY
And beg your pardon: pardon, I beseech you!
You would entreat me rather go than stay.
Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep,
The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen,
To take from thence all error with his might,
Should be! should--buzz!
Answer'd my steps too loud.
of the sight of Orlando: I'll go find a shadow and
leave his honour and her together. Go thy ways.
Tarry, rash wanton: am not I thy lord?
Pardon me, Julius! Here wast thou bay'd, brave hart,
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus
But more of that anon. Take him aside.
To-night in Harfleur we will be your guest,
And hearing your high majesty is touch'd
The one half of my commission, and set down--
My father stays my coming, answer not,
I do beseech your grace,--
go not together: she's a good sign, but I have seen
Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished:
To beg relief among Rome's enemies:
looked to, without any tricks.
Bid Salisbury and Warwick come to me.
Very obedient. Proceed you in your tears.
And I am I, howe'er I was begot.
The commoners, for whom we stand, but they
I would not speak. I pray you, spare me: 'faith,
of it. A prize! a prize!
Shall all thy mother's hopes lie in one tomb?
He has not with him.
the prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my
And pity, like a naked new-born babe,
Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow
One dowle that's in my plume: my fellow-ministers
past watching.
The Conspirators draw, and kill CORIOLANUS: AUFIDIUS stands on his body
For what I bid them do: for we bid this be done,
Good people enter and lay hold on him.
why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver
For the commodity that strangers have
'Fore God, I think so.
Divide me from your bosom.
Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit,
My lord, dispatch, read o'er these articles.
wooing. Neighbour, this is a gift very grateful, I am
Which parti-coated presence of loose love
Assure yourself, after our ship did split,
gown for thy master's use!
The source of all erection. There's more gold:
Pays dear for my offences.
Saint George, that swinged the dragon, and e'er since
From flowery tenderness? If I must die,
committed at the bridge.
Lastly, myself unkindly banished,
Where is he? call him hither.
Is this an hour for temporal affairs, ha?
This letter. That's her chamber. Tell my lady
Are the knights ready to begin the triumph?
Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet,
As good a gentleman as the emperor.
A hundred then.
Good my lord, forbear:
As I will lend you cause, my doing well
Exeunt
He has my heart yet, and shall have my prayers
Roguery!
Go to, go to.
To-morrow shall you bear our full intent
Rarest sounds! Do ye not hear?
And so stand fix'd: peace, plenty, love, truth, terror,
This amorous surfeiter would have donn'd his helm
Amen. Whereupon I will show you a chamber with a
Expects my coming, there to see me shipp'd.
Well met, well met, Master Antipholus.
Slept in his face and render'd such aspect
Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you,
We'll mutiny.
There's reason he should be displeased at it.
ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
That's not feigned, he is so.
Why, yet thy scandal were not wiped away
hand. Oh, oh, oh!
them had in them more feet than the verses would bear.
I think the duke will not be spoke withal.
To make a rescue?
That here you maintain several factions,
The hour's now come,
Must render up myself.
To ROSS and ANGUS
How doth he stand affected to our purpose,
That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth,
drawer? come, what's the issue?
When shall you see me write a thing in rhyme?
Sing no more ditties, sing no moe,
What men?
I will lay him down such reasons for this adventure
I'd change my sex to be companion with them,
My temple stands in Ephesus: hie thee thither,
All gold and silver rather turn to dirt!
The credit that thy lady hath of thee
might be knighted. I shall think the worse of fat
Should be in them to give.
to reserve. But this is from my commission: I will
To calm this tempest whirling in the court,
Alas, poor women! make us but believe,
'Twas from the canon.
Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master:
That thieves do pass on thieves? 'Tis very pregnant,
When I to feast expressly am forbid,
He was as calm as virtue--he began
Re-enter Executioners, with a cord, irons,  and c
thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she
Do you hear, master porter?
That by degrees we mean to look into,
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
Marry, master schoolmaster, he that is likest to a hogshead.
now.
Thaliard,
Thanks, good Montgomery, but we now forget
Though wayward fortune did malign my state,
must speak through, saying thus, or to the same
In bed he slept not for my urging it,
alone again, I'll never wrestle for prize more: and
kinsman, she's nothing allied to your disorders. If
And I'll beweep these comforts, worthy senators.
Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss,
honesty to acquaint the king withal, I would not
Beshrew me, but his passion moves me so
These two Antipholuses, these two so like,
A shrewd turn, and he is your friend for ever.'
me on. Yea, but how if honour prick me off when I
Till with thy warlike sword, despite of late,
Of greatest port, have all persuaded with him,
Hold you the watch to-night?
Ladies! what are their wills?
Through Athens' gates have we devised to steal.
Infects one comma in the course I hold,
God and King Henry govern England's realm.
My evils conjured to remembrance and
Exit PANDARUS
Her husband, sirrah!
Here, as I point my sword, the sun arises,
A thousand times committed, Cassio confess'd it:
'These are their reasons, they are natural,'
The conclusion is then that it will.
Makes a pass at CASSIO
Send for money, knight: if thou hast her not i'
What, I pray you?
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
I wish no better
And make us heirs of all eternity.
Dear sovereign, pardon to me.
I will bethink me: come again tomorrow.
Give you good morrow, sir.
Stand, villain, stand, or I'll fell thee down. He
That angel of the world, doth make distinction
Why, and I challenge nothing but my dukedom,
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
My brother Troilus lodges there to-night:
Against the rectorship of judgment?
This tale of Herne the hunter for a truth.
And am I last that knows it? O, thou think'st
She is as far high-soaring o'er thy praises
have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your
Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord!
[Reading out of a scroll]
Did not you speak?
her life: I shall give thee opportunity at
Being criminal, in double violation
Arthur Plantagenet, lays most lawful claim
Enter KING CLAUDIUS and LAERTES
Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help.
What if my house be troubled with a rat
They smile at me that shortly shall be dead.
me:
[Aside]  And yet you will, and yet another 'yet.'
SCENE II. Sandal Castle.
Esteem none friends but such as are his friends,
Unless he take the course that you have done,
Saving your tale, Petruchio, I pray,
But yet my nature could not bear it so.
Make it your cause, send down, and take my part!
For others' uses. Yet, 'tis the plague of great ones,
Let us about it: it is admirable pleasures and fery
Or rather, bottomless, that as fast as you pour
The Antoniad, the Egyptian admiral,
Prithee, peace.
Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness.
be thy chance to kill me,'--
Then, nobly, York, 'tis for a crown thou fight'st.
Anthony Woodville, her brother there,
Who shall tell Priam so, or Hecuba?
Or keep it as a cistern for foul toads
And thou shalt hunt a lion, that will fly
With half the bulk o' the world play'd as I pleased,
I will omit no opportunity
What ho, Malvolio!
By Providence divine.
Shall as a carpet hang upon thy grave,
Full thirty thousand marks of English coin.
As I stood here below, methought his eyes
With Cassio, mistress. Go to, charm your tongue.
Return, good Catesby, to thy lord again,
Of this escape and whither they are bound,
Should have shook lions into civil streets,
Vere is Mistress Page? By gar, I am cozened: I ha'
Great men should drink with harness on their throats.
To meet Northumberland and the prelate Scroop,
on a brick wall have I climbed into this garden, to
That's somewhat sudden:
This but done,
polecat, you runyon! out, out! I'll conjure you,
Did not you hear a cry?
Lolling the tongue with slaughtering, having work
O my distressed lord, even such our griefs are,
a kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence,
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
to endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good
Takes prisoner the wild motion of mine eye,
It is too heavy for your grace to wear.
What was the offence you gave him?
hope of life in him: so he served the second, and
Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance
As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what:
Paulina! She had one eye declined for the loss of
they should exhibit their petitions in the street?
You gentle Romans,--
Be not with mortal accidents opprest,
For truth can never be confirm'd enough,
And, countrymen, my loving followers,
Take my deserts to his, and join 'em both:
For this play at this time, is only in
mouthed bottle, either too much at once, or none at
And, through the cranks and offices of man,
Condemning some to death, and some to exile,
Than that which lives to fear: make it your comfort,
But is this law?
Exeunt PAULINA and Ladies, with HERMIONE
and the bodies shall be dragged at my horse' heels
And they did make no noise, in such a night
Thou art a strange fellow: a tailor make a man?
Gave't you the king?
Speak England first, that hath been forward first
Flies may do this, but I from this must fly:
Pisanio, thou that stand'st so for Posthumus!
tale. Have you writ down, that they are none?
Why uncle, thou hast many years to live.
None in the world, but return with an invention and
This will I send, and something else more plain,
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
general, that, upon certain tidings now arrived,
This man is Pyramus, if you would know,
I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
Enter BIRON, with a paper
My liefest liege to be mine enemy:
Although my body pay the price of it.
What trade, sir?
discharged. But come, your Bergomask: let your
Stand, sir, and throw us that you have about ye:
And call it excellent: thou wast told thus,
SCENE I. Padua. BAPTISTA'S house.
Hail, heaven!
SCENE IV. A plain in Denmark.
here the voluntary, and you as under an impress.
Pardon, Caesar, Caesar, pardon:
here, 'tis here. I have seen the time, with my long
And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
Which challenges itself as honour's born
But, as the rest, so fell that noble earl
Yet that which seems the wound to kill,
he was a wise fellow, and had good discretion, that,
If tinkers may have leave to live,
He is, and feasts the nobles of the state
Indeed, I was their tutor to instruct them:
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Eight hundred five. Besides, their writers say,
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
If hell and treason hold their promises,
they would whip me with their fine wits till I were
Then show it me.
And let me wring your heart, for so I shall,
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
Exeunt VALENTINE and PROTEUS
SCENE I. A field near Frogmore.
How I have sped among the clergymen,
Should slip so grossly, both in the heat of blood.
As toss'd it upon shore.
Odours, odours.
That kiss'd his hand away in courtesy,
Sirs, strive no more: such wither'd herbs as these
With the green sickness.
So I say.
Paysans, pauvres gens de France,
plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the
Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.
Are we not brothers?
How's this? We must take another course with you.
Prithee, my king, be quiet. Seest thou here,
quotidian tertian, that it is most lamentable to
Ay, my good lady, he.
All is but toys: renown and grace is dead,
Hugh? no, he gives me the proverbs and the
Exit
To speak with you, may it please you to come down.
In my bedchamber.
O, my lord,
His bark is stoutly timber'd, his pilot
Of purpose to obscure my noble birth.
French crowns, and to-morrow the king himself will
Here is such patchery, such juggling and such
And I'll be chief to bring him down again:
The lady protests too much, methinks.
Bight Phoebus in his strength--a malady
Dear lady, welcome home.
To cozen him that would unjustly win.
Thee o'er to harshness: her eyes are fierce, but thine
I kill'd the slave that was a-hanging thee.
I did never know so full a voice issue from so
Beguiled all spies.
mocked at my gains, scorned my nation, thwarted my
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
That thy adulteries
shoulder-bone, how he cried to me for help and said
But in it shares some woe, though the main part
Perchance till after Theseus' wedding-day.
Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office,
Since you do take it, love, so much at heart.
At large discoursed in this paper here.
Ay, Lepidus.
work?--A likely piece of work, that you should find
Unto our sister Bona.
That were to enlard his fat already pride
off Caesar's images, are put to silence. Fare you
grave of it.
And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
What is thy name? and wherefore comest thou hither,
That is he: I'll tell you there is good men porn at Monmouth.
of letter did.
The surgeon's box, or the patient's wound.
Even in the aim and very flash of it.
And by and by thy bosom shall partake
The point!--envenom'd too!
I lose myself: better I were not yours
Hope is a lover's staff, walk hence with that
I pray you, husband, be not so disquiet:
Look on my forces with a gracious eye,
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
Thou didst not know on't. Who comes here? O heavens,
And you, my lords, remember where we are,
The language I have learn'd these forty years,
It comprehends some bringer of that joy,
melancholy man.
Who, holding in disdain the German women
In Pericles, his queen and daughter, seen,
Why, Marcus, no man should be mad but I.
rightly but one who shall rightly love. But what
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
As snow in harvest. Thou deceivest thyself:
had any friend would be a man for my sake! But
SCENE XIII. Alexandria. Cleopatra's palace.
And then I came away.
Or whether that the body public be
To what end did I bid thee hie thee home?
But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
But with a knave of common hire, a gondolier,
Enter FERDINAND, with a paper
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
A light, a light!
O grave and good Paulina, the great comfort
A whoreson dog, that shall pelter thus with us!
That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hence
Art not thou the Lady Olivia's fool?
Mark, how they whisper: urge them while their souls
Who comes here?
I am one of those, his mother, wife, his child,
But still the house-affairs would draw her thence:
Is richly furnished with plate and gold,
O gracious emperor! O gentle Aaron!
Then, for his mind, be Edward England's king:
strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with
If you'll implore it, that will free your life,
Of greater sums than I have promised.
Be pilot to me and thy places shall
For my poor brother's head.
What's the quarrel?
Enter AJAX
Great nature cries 'Deny not.' let the Volsces
are metamorphosed with a mistress, that, when I look
But to defend his person from night-foes?
SCENE I. London. A street.
Pick'd from the worm-holes of long-vanish'd days,
disposition, and ask me what you will. I will grant
I was forced to scold. Your judgments, my grave lords,
The primogenitive and due of birth,
And that no man might draw short breath today
Speak, prince of Ithaca, and be't of less expect
Why do you put these sayings upon me?
The cannons have their bowels full of wrath,
How honourable and how kindly we
Sad tidings bring I to you out of France,
There were so many, whom she may accuse.
I loved you dearly, would you believe my oaths,
Most honourably doth unhold his word.
torment thee, and still thou livedst but as a
If Talbot do but thunder, rain will follow.
him truly that will put me in trust: to love him
Enter, from opposite sides, a Fairy, and PUCK
best array: bid your friends, for if you will be
She well instructs me.
Till I and my affairs are answered.
Adoption strives with nature and choice breeds
ACT I
And moe corrivals and dear men
I know no touch of consanguinity,
do you no harm to learn.
the image of it leaves him he must run mad.
have a sword and it shall bite upon my necessity.
It will the woefullest division prove
To King Edward the Third, whereas he
I am happily come hither.
And bow my knee before his majesty:
upon't! what have I forgot?
To raise my fortunes. Thou old unhappy traitor,
Black-Monday last at six o'clock i' the morning,
Stafford, take her to thee.
More is thy due than more than all can pay.
Show him your hand.
with her needle: an admirable musician: O! she
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Re-enter HORTENSIO, with his head broke
furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
Corruption wins not more than honesty.
To do them good, I would sustain some harm.
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
That have no use for trusting. If your master
Unapt to toil and trouble in the world,
Madam, good night, I humbly thank your ladyship.
[To ROBIN]  Hold, sirrah, bear you these letters tightly,
Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
And paved with gold, the emperor thus desired,
ACT III
loves me. She did commend my yellow stockings of
Farewell, my Hector, and my Troy's true hope.
say is a gallimaufry of gambols, because they are
She that accuses him of fornication,
Look where he comes.
And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first.
Re-enter Knight
I cannot taint with fear. What's the boy Malcolm?
How fares my lord? Help, lords! the king is dead.
No doubt they rose up early to observe
O perjured woman! They are both forsworn:
Or here, or at the Capitol.
Hath publish'd and proclaim'd it openly:
I have no more to reckon, he to spend.
Sir?
Thorough flood, thorough fire,
At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence.
And lie full low, graved in the hollow ground.
My lord, the army of the Duke of Buckingham--
Ay, are you thereabouts?
That you unfold to me, yourself, your half,
speaks holiday, he smells April and May: he will
Is not this buckled well?
Saint Cupid, then! and, soldiers, to the field!
Cleopatra,--
Where she at least is banish'd from your eye,
That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
As rank as any flax-wench that puts to
To win thee, lady. But, alas the while!
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:
And now, to soothe your forgery and his,
they have approved their virtues.
To be of worth and worthy estimation
Merely through fear, that the straight pass was damm'd
You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus.
Be thou revenged on men, and let me live.
For treason executed in our late king's days?
And God forbid, my dear and faithful lord,
a commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in
and in such great letters as they write 'Here is
Soundly, my lord.
Whiter than new snow on a raven's back.
of a leg, and have not money enough in the end to
out of my house yesterday in this basket: why may
Grows, lives and dies in single blessedness.
Such tricks hath strong imagination,
O, give me leave:
I had an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him,
With ships made cities, condemn myself to lack
Give me your hand: this hand is moist, my lady.
late innovation.
Than have him hold that purpose and to put it
What news with you, sir?
At Tarsus, and by Cleon train'd
Go, tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
Took it too eagerly: his soldiers fell to spoil,
I never gave it him: send for him hither,
Into what pitch he please.
A king, a king!
Get you to bed on the instant, I will be returned
by my villany, which did confirm any slander that
When the sea is. Hence! What cares these roarers
I hold as little counsel with weak fear
To some ears unrecounted. But, my lords,
the discharge: your neck, sir, is pen, book and
Would I had put my estate and my neighbour's on the
should buy first, as if my trinkets had been
No? a dozen times at least.
Or never be so noble as a consul,
Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife
Enter in mourning habits, VIRGILIA, VOLUMNIA, leading young MARCIUS, VALERIA, and Attendants
For, certes, these are people of the island--
To make your vessel nimble.
No, good madam, I will not out of doors.
His fears were, that the interview betwixt
And so she doth, cousin.
Who to my father was a friend, to me
He is twenty men to one.
Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
Will give thee time to leave our royal court,
bids me, though you say nothing. Mum, mum,
me. Now is the Count Rousillon a widower: his vows
Peace, foolish woman.
Verily, I do not jest with you, there came news from
have when you chid at Sir Proteus for going
Thou art an old love-monger and speakest skilfully.
Why, how now, uncle Gloucester!
'Tis a derivative from me to mine,
Take her hence:
As water is in water.
Enter Hostess and SLY
Having a son and friends, since Julius Caesar,
monstrous watch is at the door.
Have any resting for her true king's queen.
Assurance bless your thoughts!
Why, you say well. But I have another messenger to
That from my first have been inclined to thrift,
Thunder. Third Apparition: a Child crowned, with a tree in his hand
The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,
If you could find out a country where but women were
Oh, sir, upon her nose all o'er embellished with
Exeunt severally
Enter ESCALUS, Provost, and Officers with MISTRESS OVERDONE
O, methought, there was nothing meet.
The thoughts of people: she told her, while
Must I go show them my unbarbed sconce?
Than we to stretch it out.
Here come more voices.
The king is angry: see, he bites the lip.
This is not strange, Ulysses.
There is thy gold, worse poison to men's souls,
The next degree is England's royal throne,
This matter of marrying his king's daughter, wherein
No, no, no, no, no.
And from this swarm of fair advantages
And for myself, foe as he was to me,
He's with the king your father.
O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
You thus have publish'd me! Gentle my lord,
To know my errand, madam.
No, they are both as whole as a fish.
as partly touching or concerning the disciplines of
lady: make your excuse wisely, you were best.
Exit
This must not be thus borne: this will break out
shall be married to-morrow:
furred pack, she washes bucks here at home.
Itself for being there?
If I fly, Marcius,
of harmony.
Should hold up high in brass, and such again
Three thousand ducats for three months and Antonio bound.
Go thou toward home, where I will never come
She will be pleased, then wherefore should I doubt?
That tends to vice in man, but I affirm
were, I have acquainted you withal, to the end to
The Duke of Suffolk?
Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
Being but fourth of that heroic line.
'Gainst whom the world cannot hold argument,
Under his own vine, what he plants, and sing
I'll to the king, and signify to him
An if an angel should have come to me
ACT II
Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
Whose being I do fear: and, under him,
It is a sword of Spain, the ice-brook's temper:--
Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth and a day,
Come then, away, let's ha' no more ado.
But in conclusion put strange speech upon me:
The cod-piece that will house
Welcome, my son: who are the violets now
end of the ship, to see how the sea flap-dragoned
Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear.
Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter,
Let go the hand of that arch-heretic,
What didst thou lose, Jack?
Enter Chamberlain
You have stood your limitation, and the tribunes
barbarous. Do you not educate youth at the
bluntly: that which ordinary men are fit for, I am
As wretches have o'ernight
Lorenzo, who is thy new master's guest:
With linstock now the devilish cannon touches,
Who is't you mean?
I'll make him sure enough: so, farewell to your highness.
Again!
I should be false persuaded I had daughters.
Beats BIONDELLO
Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body
translated.
O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
Too far i' the land: 'tis like to be loud weather,
To groan and sweat under the business,
He would not answer to: forbad all names,
Exeunt
Let me commend thee first to those that shall
A Roman thought hath struck him. Enobarbus!
Anon, anon, sir.
He was a thing of blood, whose every motion
service: it was a disaster of war that Caesar
less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter, and
SCENE I. Rome. Titus's garden.
She shall not see me: I will ensconce me behind the arras.
My dagger, little cousin? with all my heart.
You have an excellent armour, but let my horse have his due.
Not that we love words better, as you do.
Sleep when he wakes and creep into the jaundice
Let 'em alone, and draw the curtain close:
With a light heart, trust not my holy order,
SCENE VI. A chamber in a farmhouse adjoining the castle.
They willfully themselves exile from light
Fetch forth the lazar kite of Cressid's kind,
And those his golden beams to you here lent
There you shall find that Portia was the doctor,
Convert o' the instant, green virginity,
If your lordship find him not a hilding, hold me no
Enter QUEEN and Ladies
Our trusty friend, unless I be deceived.
Enter LYSANDER and HERMIA
And all those friends that deign to follow me.
No, my lord, nor likely to be slain, for they have
The let-alone lies not in your good will.
Alas, you know, 'tis far from hence to France,
With silken streamers the young Phoebus fanning:
And 'twill be supper-time ere you come there.
No messenger, but thine, and all alone
SCENE III. Another room in the castle.
Nay, I know not: it makes me almost ready to
Enter OPHELIA
Exit Servant
So many guests invite as here are writ.
No, indeed, sir, the Lady Olivia has no folly: she
From thee, even from thy virtue!
You're welcome, sir.
I am sorry I must never trust thee more,
I have almost matter enough in me for such an
Is all of her, say that thou overheard'st us,
Why then, the beef, and let the mustard rest.
for all he be a Roman: and there be some of them
Where is thy leather apron and thy rule?
He is my son, yea, and therein my shame,
To help our fielded friends! Come, blow thy blast.
Be singly counterpoised. At sixteen years,
Where's the fool now?
My tongue will tell the anger of my heart,
To FABIAN
Advise him.
'Tis Joan, not we, by whom the day is won,
For what's more miserable than discontent?
O thou goddess,
Too little payment for so great a debt.
I cannot, lord, I have important business,
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled,
Good Murder, stab him, he's a murderer.
Dropping upon thy head.
Enter DOLABELLA
Than to suspicion.
Then what should war be? This fell whore of thine
He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of
I will believe thou hast a mind that suits
For I had rather wink than look on them.
Which like a mighty whiffler 'fore the king
All causes shall give way: I am in blood
Of heaven and men, her purposes, repented
To revel in the entrails of my lambs.
Boys, bid him welcome.
thither will I invite the duke and all's contented
In the mean time, what hear you of these wars?
Who waits there? Sure, you know me?
Exit
In brief,--for so the season bids us be,--
Extended Asia from Euphrates,
To counsel Cassio to this parallel course,
I'll give a thousand pound to look upon him.
It is, and all the rest are countesses.
Pardon me, madam,
Exeunt DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO
How every thing is chanced.
SCENE IV. The field of battle.
Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars,
Which issued from my other angel husband
His sceptre shows the force of temporal power,
And calls your grace usurper openly
And thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men!
May hang upon your hardness: therefore hear us.
Think you, but that I know our state secure,
I take all and your several visitations
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
Out, alas!
stocks: and what think you he hath confessed?
Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety. 'The
Ensues his piteous and unpitied end:
You are welcome, masters, welcome, all. I am glad
How well resembles it the prime of youth,
Takes hold of the hand of the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
This is not Brutus, friend, but, I assure you,
Ghost unlaid forbear thee!
I answer'd indirectly, as I said,
lips to open. You do love this maid?
But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom,
You are a gentleman and a gamester, sir.
I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
I am not married, Caesar: let me hear
but my head and my neck. A fire good Curtis.
Save, from my glass, mine own, nor have I seen
Up.
and therein am I constant to my profession.
I find an apt remission in myself,
My cousin's a fool, and thou art another: I'll wear
sworn brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold
Thou hadst a Clarence too, and Richard kill'd him.
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
Madam, you have done me wrong,
You give him then the advantage.
That death in me at others' lives may laugh.
That offer service to your lordship.
The melancholy Jaques grieves at that,
The repetition, in a woman's ear,
To make them kings, the seed of Banquo kings!
But to your wishes' height advance you both.
Here had we now our country's honour roof'd,
Think upon patience. Pray you, gentlemen,
That hath express'd himself in all his deeds
She makes our profession as it were to stink afore
It were done quickly: if the assassination
Cast none away. That I shall clear myself,
Exit
That's more than we know.
us friends, I will pursue the amity.
Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase,
I am the most offending soul alive.
I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
me to the semblance I put on, with the which I doubt
'tis not good that children should know any
bestowed much honour on a young Florentine called Claudio.
that is honest, to converse with him that is wise,
Of him it holds, stands young Plantagenet,
Who have we here?
endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vain
If you'll back to the court--
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris,
My part of death, no one so true
Madam, madam,--
My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth,
the trick of singularity: she thus advises thee
Good night, good night! parting is such
sighed but they asked one another the reason, no
And all that are assembled in this place,
Exeunt
snow that's bolted
The element they lived in: in his livery
heed of Troilus, I can tell them that too.
I'll give thee, ere I leave thee, so much money,
For by his fall my honour must keep high.
How may likeness made in crimes,
Beats him
This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot,
return to bed, yet all this while in a most fast sleep.
Let me be blest to make this happy close,
Spurr'd, gall'd and tired by jouncing Bolingbroke.
How came the noble Timon to this change?
O, then began the tempest to my soul,
are no husband for her.
They have all new legs, and lame ones: one would take it,
Hath he forgot he is his sovereign?
Nay, let us share thy thoughts, as thou dost ours.
You are a saucy fellow:
years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend
Pray heaven it be state-matters, as you think,
She is alone.
And notwithstanding all her sudden quips,
it, it transmigrates.
Do no more offices of life to't than
What further you will do.
If I would lose it for a revenue
And this the bleeding business they have done:
We'll part the time between's then, and in that
Becomes not Rome, nor has Coriolanus
Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
Exeunt
And yet she is inferior to none.
Cobloaf!
Of this young Percy's pride? the prisoners,
SCENE V. London. The Tower.
'Tis midnight, I'll go arm myself.
Romeo is banish'd, and all the world to nothing,
Hero thinks surely she will die, for she says she
I am desperate of my fortunes if they cheque me here.
One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
I am very glad on't.
She is a woman, therefore may be won,
Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
O, stay! I have no power to let her pass,
Set a fair fashion on our entertainment,
In Helicanus may you well descry
In this strange stare?
The chafed boar, the mountain lioness,
Exit
For my affection.
Lucilius' Servant	Alas, my lord,-
That hand which had the strength, even at your door,
My lord, prepare, the king comes on apace.
He wrought upon her.
Come on, lay it by: and let's first see moe
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
When I did make thee free, sworest thou not then
I found a friend, and sure as death I swore
move
your oration, and let him deliver the pigeons to
Justice, O royal duke! Vail your regard
You are so merciful: I see your end,
How I have loved and honour'd Saturnine!
Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
Splitting the air with noise.
'Romeo is banished,' to speak that word,
With maiden flowers, that all the world may know
No.
'I Pray, sir'--Plague upon't! I cannot bring
In personal suit to make me his lieutenant,
To bring him to the haven, left these notes
As woman's love.
O queen of queens! how far dost thou excel,
Look what you do, you do it still i' the dark.
Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn,
March'd through the city to the palace gates.
That downward hath succeeded in his house
Many years of happy days befal
SCENE V. The French camp.
Exit Second Messenger
Enter a Messenger
Come, Montague, for thou art early up,
Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks,
Which he had thought to have murder'd wrongfully.
Hark, how hard he fetches breath. Search his pockets.
Draw near, ye people.
Go, Eros, send his treasure after, do it,
Faith, sir, so so.
Now, Clifford, I have singled thee alone:
Shall follow in your conduct speedily.
Go, gentleman, every man unto his charge
But ere they came,--O, let me say no more!
My wounds ache at you.
Sings
with your eyes. Take notice that I am in Cambria,
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
Faith, sir, he has led the drum before the English
To my proceedings, if, with pure heart's love,
And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour,
offer it: but these that accuse him in his intent
a prop? Do you know me, father?
There's law and warrant, lady, for my curse.
Mistress Anne Page. I pray you, be gone: I will
And let it be confiscate all, so soon
Unto the prince's heart of Calydon.
And level of my brain, plot-proof, but she
As we do trace this alley up and down,
No, by this heavenly light!
And with indented glides did slip away
To EDGAR
A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk,
Truly, a peck of provender: I could munch your good
I like it well. France, shall we knit our powers
What men of name resort to him?
To the sweet glances of thy honour'd love,
Tut, man, I mean thou'lt lose the flood, and, in
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
And, by thy guess, how nigh is Clarence now?
Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard,
Look after him and cannot do him good,
From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
Never came poison from so sweet a place.
throat cut like a calf.
for you! here's no vanity! I am as hot as moulten
By heaven, I rather would have been his hangman.
An ante-chamber adjoining Imogen's apartments.
Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble,
Exit
a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. With die and
Forsooth, took on him as a conjurer,
As we shall make our griefs and clamour roar
That here come sacrifices for the field:
you for yourselves?
DON
little: he always loved our sister most, and
That their events can never fall out good.
friends, and full of expectation, an excellent plot,
courtier's hands are perfumed with civet.
An if the shepherd be a while away.
His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
A recreant and most degenerate traitor
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
Which holds not colour with the time, nor does
the will. Come, be a man. Drown thyself! drown
Well, here is my leg.
The reason moved these warlike lords to this
For tender princes, use my babies well!
For being a bawd, for being a bawd.
I never saw a vessel of like sorrow,
[Aside]             What should this mean?
man were porter of hell-gate, he should have
Sings
But that thou art so fast mine enemy.
That hath beside well in his person wrought
His equal had awaked them, and his honour,
[Within]  Ay, when fowls have no feathers and fish have no fin.
You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest,
Not step o'er the bounds of modesty.
This cloth thou dip'dst in blood of my sweet boy,
be sworn: for my own part, I came in late. What
Confess who set thee up and pluck'd thee own,
Let's reinforce, or fly.
Why, our authority is his consent,
Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? and is not
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?
Whence comest thou? what wouldst thou? thy name?
Hard-hearted Clifford, take me from the world:
The gods preserve you both!
neither than with safety of a pure blush thou mayst
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
But to relieve them of their heavy load,
SCENE I. London. An ante-chamber in the palace.
So smooth he daub'd his vice with show of virtue,
She has deceived her father, and may thee.
Than my out-wall, open this purse, and take
You will never run mad, niece.
which will give language to you, cat: open your
Where?
And she will be your scholar: therefore look to it.
There weep and leave it crying, and, for the babe
and so there is, but it lies as coldly in him as fire
If not in heaven, you'll surely sup in hell.
They may awake their helps to comfort them.
For in a quarrel since I came ashore
A certain stuff, which, being ta'en, would cease
upon the least occasion more mine eyes will tell
O young John Talbot! I did send for thee
Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears,
unstanched wench.
one Cassio entreats her a little favour of speech:
Sister, farewell, I must to Coventry:
I'll go watch.
What feats he did that day: then shall our names.
company last night at supper, a kind of auditor, one
Subscribe to your deep oaths, and keep it too.
There's five to one, besides, they all are fresh.
Seems to prepare his way: so let him land,
Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,
Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
For thus deluding you.
Kinsmen, his sorrows are past remedy.
We four indeed confronted were with four
Exeunt
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
it.
Woe, woe for England! not a whit for me,
Friends, that have been thus forward in my right,
Bloody constraint, for if you hide the crown
To find out you. Who's that? Metellus Cimber?
From Rome.
Not that it wounds,
imposition, as for the enjoying of thy life, who I
Many a man would take you at your word,
HERMIONE comes down
That nothing but himself which looks like man
Else what a mockery should it be to swear!
But I must tell you, now my thoughts revolt
He did bespeak a chain for me, but had it not.
Which once perform'd, let all the world say no,
His is certain, ours is doubtful.
thief this seven year, a' goes up and down like a
Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing:
A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times more rich,
Exeunt
A cur, sir.
How like you this wild counsel, mighty states?
What you have done--before our army hear me.
White-handed mistress, one sweet word with thee.
The clouds methought would open and show riches
Your noble mother: and, as I hear, my lord,
Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
Is eaten by the canker ere it blow,
to move in't, are the holes where eyes should be,
When he might spurn him with his foot away?
With all my heart, my lord.
And make the silken strings delight to kiss them,
Than amply to imbar their crooked titles
Boyet, prepare, I will away tonight.
Were but one danger, and to keep him here
no staying. In despite of the devils and hell, have
Sure, one of you does not serve heaven well, that
That now our loss might be ten times so much?
Of France and England, did this king succeed,
A good persuasion: therefore, hear me, Hermia.
Aside to SATURNINUS
And, for my love, I pray you wrong me not.
you any further trade with us?
And observation strange, my meaner ministers
This is but a custom in your tongue, you bear a
Why, how now, Dromio! where runn'st thou so fast?
The younger rises when the old doth fall.
But left that hateful office unto thee:
This borrow'd passion stands for true old woe,
Enter PHILOTUS
With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a
He has, and we shall see him
Your friends are up, and buckle on their armour.
Comparative for your virtues, to be styled
aspect to the hot breath of Spain, who sent whole
You fled for vantage, everyone will swear,
To stain my cousin with: one doth not know
Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.
Well, stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in a
The sea will ebb and flow, heaven show his face,
That does infect the land: with which they moved
For which, the most high gods not minding longer
Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
Must by us both be spent most preciously.
If not, he foams at mouth and by and by
And boarded her i' the wanton way of youth:
No bargains break that are not this day made:
Come, you look paler and paler: pray you, draw
I will avouch in presence of the king:
This is fery fantastical humours and jealousies.
The cords, the ladder, or the hangman rather?
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Not at all, good lady:
Are sometimes like our judgments, blind. Good faith,
They say Edgar, his banished son, is with the Earl
Nor would your noble mother for much more
Minding true things by what their mockeries be.
thou art nothing.
SCENE VI. The same. Another room in the palace.
And say 'What is't your honour will command,
Where is my lord protector? I have sent for these
O brave monster! Lead the way.
Long since we were resolved of your truth,
Exeunt
That govern us below.
I take her hand.
Why, good sir?
Till he hath pass'd necessity.
For love of God, forbear him.
I pray you, know me when we meet again:
Arise forth from the couch of lasting night,
That I should open to the listening air
In all my writings: go with me, and see
Give rest to the minds of others, such as he
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
coxcomb, is it meet, think you, that we should also,
A pillow for his head:
And not o' the court of Britain.
Now, thieves?
man. What a woman are you!--Away with him, away
With some more ducats, and be with you straight.
For he hath laid strange courtesies and great
No more o' that,
Honest Ventidius, you mistake my love:
I have as much of this in art as you,
You never spoke what did become you less
I know not where to turn: O, welcome home:
And frame my face to all occasions.
An act that very chance doth throw upon him--
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact,
Thou hast it now: king, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
My humble thanks. I had almost forgot
[Aside]  Pray to the devils, the gods have given us over.
You have said well.
Upon Good-Friday and ne'er broke his fast:
would call abbominable: it insinuateth me of
Take but degree away, untune that string,
Who thinks he knows that he ne'er knew my body,
The eagle suffers little birds to sing,
Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow.
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
As if they vow'd some league inviolable:
Before, I loved thee as a brother, John,
Lest I be taken: not the imperious show
O, my good lord, I have been your tenant, and
Display'd so saucily against your highness,--
Dispose of her
late stood out against your brother, and he hath
An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
Obedience bids I should not bid again.
Cries out for noble York and Somerset,
business of the master the author of the servant's
The hearts of all that he did angle for,
Against my king and nephew, virtuous Henry,
Which never could I so convey,
Intend my travel, where I'll hear from thee,
And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe.
And brokes with all that can in such a suit
Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their
I have delivered it an hour since: there is
third--borough.
And that hath dazzled my reason's light,
And, like a strutting player, whose conceit
Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail:
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
And you, fair sister.
Ay, sir, whom, I thank heaven, is an honest woman,--
I carried from thee, dear, and my true lip
I will be brief, for my short date of breath
And put thy fortune to the arbitrement
But give thyself unto my sick desires,
What is the matter, my lord?
Do so. Farewell, both.
Here will I sit before the walls of Rouen
Double, double toil and trouble,
Gentle, and low, an excellent thing in woman.
And surer bind this knot of amity,
Or have a woman to your lord:
The adornment of her bed, the arras, figures,
Above the rest, be gone.
The time is worth the use on't.
Which she must dote on in extremity.
any thing I want: offer me no money, I pray you,
Hath turn'd his balls to gun-stones, and his soul
Exit above
Caesar has taken Toryne.
ANTIPHOLUS
Do you hear, you minion? you'll let us in, I hope?
Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress:
That Marcius shall be consul:
'Twere sure enough.
An apple, cleft in two, is not more twin
Donalbain.
By my advice, all humbled on your knees,
How have the hours rack'd and tortured me,
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
is in the fields, it pleaseth me well, but in
Nor none of thee, thou pale and common drudge
From me he got it. if thy greatness will
True, save means to live.
Why, this passes, Master Ford, you are not to go
He shall have the skin of our enemies, to make
with thee.
Enter KING HENRY VI and GLOUCESTER, with the Lieutenant, on the walls
I would have you.
Gold were as good as twenty orators,
And yet, forsooth, she is a virgin pure.
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful,
To seek the light of truth, while truth the while
If she be up, I'll speak with her, if not,
Nay, not sound, I pray you.
Where Helen is the subject, then, I say,
By this we gather
If her liquor be good, she shall: if she will not, I
Please you to interpose, fair madam: kneel
Who, after great Hostilius, here was king,
And makest me call what I intend to do
By my regard, but kill'd none so. Camillo,--
And that your majesty was a usurper.
His speedy taking off. As for the mercy
I'll find a day to massacre them all
Cannot pick out five such, take each one in his vein.
What, old acquaintance! could not all this flesh
Go in with us and see: we have an hour's talk with
Methinks he should the sooner pay his debts,
To this most cruel act, do but despair,
The drum playing and trumpet sounding, reenter  WARWICK, SOMERSET, and the rest, bringing KING  EDWARD IV out in his gown, sitting in a chair. RICHARD and HASTINGS fly over the stage
[Striking her]  Devil!
I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.
Now in the rearward comes the duke and his:
Yes, that goodness
her reputation, her marriage-vow, and a thousand
Ay, but, Sir John, methinks they are exceeding poor
A grave? O no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth,
[Aside]  You are a fool granted, therefore your
By thee, and this thou didst return from him,
This way, my lord, the castle's gently render'd:
What should I say? his deeds exceed all speech:
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
His absence, sir,
I shall hereafter, my thrice gracious lord,
Why, then the world's mine oyster.
To do the act that might the addition earn
A woman's shape doth shield thee.
Hark! the drums
Might easiliest harbour in? Thou blessed thing!
Upon the brook that brawls along this wood:
Against his brother and his lawful king?
'--O heart, heavy heart,
Whom heavens, in justice, both on her and hers,
This would drink deep.
been wise.
The fit is momentary, upon a thought
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
commodities upon our bills?
I am glad on't: I desire no more delight
Enter PUCK
Of sun and moon, and that the affrighted globe
This arm shall do it, or this life be spent.
And wishes fall out as they're will'd.
Still have I tarried.
horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing
Shame on himself! for my desert is honour:
For me, the ransom of my bold attempt
Be advised,
'Faith sir, we were carousing till the
I follow'd that I blush to look upon:
Then, God be bless'd, it is the blessed sun:
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
Till Warwick or himself be quite suppress'd.
'Twixt these extremes at all.
Your lordship shall along. Come, good Sir Thomas,
Now is my day's work done, I'll take good breath:
Encounter such revolt.
Striking his head
And comfort you, my master.
With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord,
desired employment, BIRON.' Sir Nathaniel, this
And let our hearts, as subtle masters do,
For, if you should, O, what would come of it!
Meantime the court shall hear Bellario's letter.
What dost thou know?
Save you, fair queen!
I doubt he be hurt. Fare ye well, good niece.
and Helen so blushed, an Paris so chafed, and all the
I know not how I lost him. Here I kneel:
combustion in the state. I missed the meteor once,
fashions: you shall fare well, you shall have the
If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
Thou hast spoken right, 'tis true,
With all licentious measure, making your wills
Thou disease of a friend, and not himself!
But he that filches from me my good name
Ay, but the clerk that never means to do it,
Thus will I drown your exclamations.
And rob his temples of the diadem,
Say, lord chamberlain,
Throw up thine eye! see, see what showers arise,
What is this?
Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk:
followers.
And then he drew a dial from his poke,
bare friendship, without security. Here's three
For ancient quarrels, and quite lost their hearts.
England hath long been mad, and scarr'd herself,
You'll have enough.
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight,
A second time do such a courtesy.
And in their barks my thoughts I'll character,
Though the seas threaten, they are merciful,
And fight against that monstrous rebel Cade,
All will be well.
Still Music
Thou wilt be taken. Stay awhile! Stand up,
The army of the queen hath got the field:
To walk where any honest man resort.
and where they would be safe, they perish: then if
At any time speak aught?
Acquire too high a fame when him we serve's away.
O God, she comes!
Sport royal, I warrant you: I know my physic will
The quality and hair of our attempt
Your honour hath no shriving work in hand.
Varro's Servant	'Twas due on forfeiture, my lord, six weeks And past.
Never sees horrid night, the child of hell,
he be a whoremonger, and comes before him, he were
God and good angel fight on Richmond's side,
Thou shalt not stir a foot to seek a foe.
Wise things seem foolish and rich things but poor.
If any born at Ephesus be seen
It gives me wonder great as my content
be pardoned.
I do not understand.
Merry, amen. I will, sir, I will.
What though I be enthrall'd? he seems a knight,
It shall be so: I'll send her to my house,
Do, then, dear heart, for heaven shall hear our prayers,
Which He hath given for fence impregnable,
Would I were with him! He would always say--
Exeunt
As surely as my soul intends to live
To execute the like upon thyself,
No child but Hero, she's his only heir.
The very time Aumerle and you did talk.
Made senseless things begin to do them wrong,
The kindred of the queen, must die at Pomfret.
More evident than this, for this was stolen.
Well roared, Lion.
I beg of you to know me, good my lord,
Not so, but I answer you right painted cloth, from
What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,
How know you that?
methinks, is the curse dependent on those that war
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
the coast on Wednesday the four-score of April,
No man but prophesied revenge for it.
Hast made thine enemies?
it like a fool!
Fair as a text B in a copy-book.
Thy beauty hath, and made them blind with weeping.
As these before thee thou thyself shalt bleed.
Exeunt
Than death and honour. Let's to supper, come,
Stay, yet look back with me unto the Tower.
No matter.
Enter CALIBAN with a burden of wood. A noise of thunder heard
To cure this deadly grief.
If money were as certain as your waiting,
This oracle of comfort has so pleased me,
Warr'st thou 'gainst Athens?
Farewell, and stand fast.
I'ld not have sold her for it.
Exeunt
barkest at him.
From all the impure blots and stains thereof,
The article of my oath.
Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak,
Some fair excuse.
And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy.
Exeunt POLIXENES, HERMIONE, and Attendants
Monster, I will kill this man: his daughter and I
I can again thy former light restore,
Unshaked of motion: and that I am he,
To equal my great fortune.
O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee hence!
I would have sworn it had, my lord, especially
Crying 'O dear Cassio!' as it were: his gesture
And you shall pay well for 'em.
Will bear no colour for the thing he is,
Against our nuptial and confer with you
When you above perceive me like a crow,
Nor hath Love's mind of any judgement taste,
as his finger. And thou wert best look to't, for if
I am sorry for't:
Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
More hideous when thou show'st thee in a child
To lose thy youth in peace, and to achieve
Come your way, sir. 'Bless you, good father friar.
And in the towns, as they do march along,
into which they vanished. Whiles I stood rapt in
myself, fellow Curtis.
Have too a woman's heart, which ever yet
That profit us. What, ho! slave! Caliban!
You might have been enough the man you are,
Hardly serve.
Of an unbounded stomach, ever ranking
'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false
Let it be so. Sir John,
Which I do owe you.
Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.
Be not found here, hence, with your little ones.
Enter CAPHIS
At some hours in the night spirits resort,--
Treason, my lord! Lavinia is surprised!
Who told me how the poor soul did forsake
the young Lord Paris?
Besides, old Gremio is hearkening still,
Whereon, I do beseech thee, grant me this,
I will consider, what you have to say
What, dead, my dove?
will pour some in thy other mouth.
And case thy reputation in thy tent,
I will enchant the old Andronicus
Hath ordain'd to an honourable end,
To be to thee this night a torch-bearer,
I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as
Wilt thou be lord of all the world?
voutsafe me, look you, a few disputations with you,
The country base than to commit such slaughter
He that would vouch it in any place but here.
But I can tell you that of late this duke
Unhappily, even so.
Against these giddy loose suggestions:
Reads
I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,
Joy had the like conception in our eyes
Take from his heart, take from his brain,
Every one lets forth his sprite,
Why, Dromio?
You speak o' the people,
My lord, you shall o'er-rule my mind for once.
A grave: come, arm him. Boy, he is preferr'd
as it were, a dog at all things. If I had not had
Horns winded. Enter a Lord from hunting, with his train
Whose high exploits and honourable deeds
And call them pillars that will stand to us,
Was not a man my father? Hadst thou foxship
I am tied to the stake, and I must stand the course.
'Alas, why is she so?'
their ears,
she'll be ashamed.
The leafy shelter that abuts against
SCENE I. The same.
speak to thee in drink but in tears, not in
pathetical break-promise and the most hollow lover
Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes,
Exeunt STANLEY and CATESBY
He, he, and you, and you, my liege, and I,
oft, which now again you are most apt to play the
That mercy which fierce fire and iron extends,
As I intend to prosper and repent,
Now march we hence: discharge the common sort
Now is that noble vessel full of grief,
'Twould drink the cup and all.
wink and hold out mine iron: it is a simple one, but
So full of frost, of storm and cloudiness?
Some two months hence my will shall here be made:
Thy news?
My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,
Then in mine own person I die.
it.
Well demanded, wench:
Of what is to continue: never mind
And she can have no more than all I have:
Look how thou stirrest now! come away, or I'll
And made our footstool of security.
of two dog-apes, and when a man thanks me heartily,
The anger'd ocean foams, with which I meant
As well I tender you and all of yours!
These cardinals trifle with me: I abhor
I cannot conjure, Trojan.
Alas, master, what shall I do? I am not able to stand.
knows no end of them. Well, that is the dowry of
Is by a forged process of my death
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
You are welcome, sir: adieu.
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice,
Good morrow, Alexander. How do you, cousin? When
I say, bid come before us Angelo.
Save that, they say, the wars must make examples
The table round.
Art thou against us, Duke of Exeter?
That are so fortified against our story
the lists of the army will maintain upon Edmund,
By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh
Exit
Is there no other way of mercy,
nose, or against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get
Great Earl of Washford, Waterford and Valence,
More sacks to the mill! O heavens, I have my wish!
All dead.
'Twas men I lack'd and you will give them me:
Together with your ring, and not the wronger
Sing willow, willow, willow:
SCENE II. A plain in Warwickshire.
Calchas, I think. Where's your daughter?
For it an archbishop.
How now, dear sovereign, and our gracious mother!
Then give you up to the mask'd Neptune and
And kneel, sweet boy, the Roman Hector's hope,
Enter CONSTANCE
O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
No, nor Hector is not Troilus in some degrees.
Belonging to his honour, and this man
But say, I pray, what nobleman is that
half, for easing me of the carriage.
More than in your addition.
Why do you send so thick?
To crown himself king and suppress the prince.
therefore you must needs play Pyramus.
This was his basket.
Some merry mocking lord, belike, is't so?
Boult!
You knew my father well, and in him me,
As I upon advantage did remove,
All things that you should use to do me wrong
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
He that doth naught with her, excepting one,
Your mother.
Music, still
Churchmen so hot? good uncle, hide such malice,
Exit
To have turn'd my leaping-time into a crutch,
And let ourselves again but understand,
Upon her patient breast, making their way
We tread upon, and never think of it.
Iago beckons me, now he begins the story.
We render you the tenth, to be ta'en forth,
Although the duke was enemy to him,
And with what zeal! for, now he has crack'd the league
And dare not speak their knowledge. Antony
Amen!
A fiend, a fury, pitiless and rough,
Our purpose necessary and not envious:
Ay, ay, three thousand ducats.
And given me notice of their villanies.
discontent: his comfortable temper has forsook him,
my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have our answer.
That any thing he sees, which moves his liking,
Re-enter TITINIUS, with MESSALA
All the stored vengeances of heaven fall
'Tis done by me, and ends in 'Margaret.'
How came she by that light?
The action of my life is like it, which
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
A heart unspotted is not easily daunted.
Give me this maid, your daughter?
Cousins, God give you joy!
He bears him on the place's privilege,
Never harm,
A sennet sounded. Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK  ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POMPEY, AGRIPPA, MECAENAS, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, MENAS, with other captains
Your needful counsel to our business,
Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy,
And pat he comes like the catastrophe of the old
Over the wretched? What though you have no beauty,--
For more uneven and unwelcome news
Dead Caesar's trencher, nay, you were a fragment
Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Ay, the most peerless piece of earth, I think,
The trembling lamb environed with wolves.
This discipline shows thou hast been in love.
amazed, he will every way be mocked.
Nor brass nor stone nor parchment bears not one,
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
I do presume, sir, that you are not fallen
'Tis the times' plague, when madmen lead the blind.
Ah, do not tear away thyself from me!
Doth make a stand at what your highness will.
see her chamber-window entered, even the night
TIMON comes from his cave, behind
Didst thou not say, when I did push thee back--
O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
Shall not be long but I'll be here again:
For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires,
I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
As full as thy report?
Farewell, my liege. Now no way can I stray,
Like enough you do.
Exit
in Greek, Latin, and other languages, as the other
I do.
And take the great-grown traitor unawares:
Re-enter PANDARUS
After distasteful looks and these hard fractions,
From me, whose love was of that dignity
Or be admitted to your highness' council.
That stout Pendragon in his litter sick
And may ye both be suddenly surprised
not tainted! And why meet him at the gates, and
SCENE III. A room in FORD'S house.
If I had such a tire, this face of mine
Tell me what blessings I have here alive,
I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.
Look'd he o' the inside of the paper?
In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
There's no harm done.
But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt.
the world at his book. I pray you, ask him some
Or Jove for's power to thunder. His heart's his mouth:
Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
They pass by strangely: they were used to bend
Brutus and Caesar: what should be in that 'Caesar'?
Made it a fool and beggar. The two kings,
I am gone, though I am here: there is no love in
Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
And shut the gates for safety of ourselves,
For, my good liege, she is so idly king'd,
'Tis not sleepy business,
And I to live and die her slave.
Enter MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, Page, and Servants
For suffering so the causes of our wreck.
Satis quod sufficit.
Or else it stood upon the choice of friends,--
great, reasonable great: marry, for my part, I
Therefore no more of it: hear other things.
I have heard, sir, of such a man, who hath a
To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,
Helenus. I think he went not forth to-day. That's Helenus.
Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance.
Fie, de la Pole! disable not thyself,
Caesar? Why, he's the Jupiter of men.
and see if you can see my master, Master Doctor
woolward for penance.
To doubt the equivocation of the fiend
I tell thee, my master is become a hot lover.
And how by this their child shall be advanced,
Can couch for fear, but I will find them out,
ANTIPHOLUS
But not a minute, king, that thou canst give:
Is certain falling, or so slippery that
Yet,--
Doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look:
Of a strange nature is the suit you follow,
They are then excused, my lord, when they see not
To the Propontic and the Hellespont,
To bar heaven's shaft, but sin had his reward.
Beheld his tears, and laugh'd so heartily,
And what of all this?
Receive him, then, to favor, Saturnine,
See here, my friends and loving countrymen,
And so farewell: I would not have my father
And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
washing her hands: I have known her continue in
It is to be all made of faith and service,
And nobleness impose: at least thus much:
Prospero my lord shall know what I have done:
Ay, my good lord.
It pays the hearing double recompense.
To lose't or give't away were such perdition
Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France
Hath in eternal darkness folded up.
And now, young lords, was't not a happy star
With the whole quality wherefore: I fear
Brought them to be lamented. Our army shall
Except the marshal and such officers
Let Richard be restored to his blood,
Of unrelenting Clifford and the queen,
Love, and be silent.
And shining morning face, creeping like snail
Venetia, Venetia,
Break too.
Most dull, honest Dull! To our sport, away!
It follows in his thought that I am he.
you could make it another.
Iago, my reputation!
Trow you who hath done this?
O Brakenbury, I have done those things,
ish nothing done, so Chrish sa' me, la!
Meet me within this hour at Baynard's Castle.
And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
If I confess much, you will play the tyrant.
Enter CLEOPATRA, attended
And in the brunt of seventeen battles since
o' the song: would God would serve the world so all
Here have you seen a mighty king
He finds the joys of heaven here on earth,
And wouldst do so, I think, should we encounter
them and foot them too. A plague of all cowards!
Though I do hate him as I do hell-pains.
I brought my master news of Juliet's death,
Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
Enter ORLANDO and OLIVER
Welcome, sweet prince, to London, to your chamber.
I will fetch him.
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
and, he returning to break our necks, they respect not us.
Enter a Servant
how does thine ague?
of invention: taunt him with the licence of ink:
Wish him ten fathom deep: this duke as much
As Owen Glendower for an enemy.
That ever made eye swerve, had force and knowledge
Philemon, ho!
for an ass.
Flowing and swelling o'er with arts and exercise:
ACT V
Which break themselves in swearing!
And so the prince obscured his contemplation
That I am meek and gentle with these butchers!
doublet like a rabbit on a spit, or your hands in
So many hours must I take my rest,
The breast of heaven, I did present myself
Gone, my good lord.
And may our oaths well kept and prosperous be!
Of their white flags display'd, they bring us peace,
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
She was the daughter of a king:
Invite my Lords of Salisbury and Warwick
She's a most exquisite lady.
said he then?
What is here?
My thanks, sweet madam.
To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets:
Enter KING RICHARD II and QUEEN, DUKE OF AUMERLE,  BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT, LORD ROSS, and LORD WILLOUGHBY
Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound
Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the matter.
Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself:
To-morrow, if you please to speak with me,
Let four captains
nobody: is there any harm in 'the heavier for a
I cannot make you what amends I would,
From these old arms and legs, by the good gods,
Being a thing immortal as itself?
He's not prepared for death. Even for our kitchens
Out of your proof you speak: we, poor unfledged,
Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest house in it
That screws me from my true place in your favour,
If that thy father live, let him repent
Do I put up that womanly defence,
tabour, if thy tabour stand by the church.
Ha!
Away!
If ever he have child, abortive be it,
Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters.
And serving you so long!
Makes it take head from all indifferency,
Holla, you clown!
More upon humour than advised respect.
And fly would Talbot never, though he might.
My legs can keep no pace with my desires.
I pray you, sir, hold your hand.
This is my fault: as for the rest appeall'd,
crowns neither. Holla, Dennis!
Salisbury?
Say, wall-eyed slave, whither wouldst thou convey
Our aery buildeth in the cedar's top,
I have procured thee, Jack, a charge of foot.
O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
With three-fold love I wish you all these three.
to me 'My honest friend Launcelot, being an honest
Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at death
cowardly rascals that ran from the battle ha' done
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
I dare assure you, sir, 'tis almost two,
Another of these students at that time
Octavius, lead your battle softly on,
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
And you shall have your bosom on this wretch,
'Tis like a chime a-mending, with terms unsquared,
My master's man. Strato, where is thy master?
To thee, that hast nor honesty nor grace.
Five or six thousand horse, I said,-- I will say
In night, and on the court and guard of safety!
I never wish'd to see you sorry, now
And when I lived, I was your other wife:
Ay, with all my heart, and thou art worthy of it.
Come, your hand,
To bate me a full year.
Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
Who didst thou leave to tend his majesty?
'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this
O, are you free?
That by a pace goes backward, with a purpose
Then will I raise aloft the milk-white rose,
Fall to them as you find your stomach serves you,
This challenge that the gallant Hector sends,
Take her away, for she hath lived too long,
Why, how now, father!
Ay, sir, but I am sure I do not, and whatsoever a
He pageants us. Sometime, great Agamemnon,
DON
Here is no drink! Hark, Marcus, what she says,
SCENE IV. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
'Tis he, I ken the manner of his gait,
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BURGUNDY, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
praiseworthy: and now tell me, how doth your cousin?
Ay.
tell you, captain, if you look in the maps of the
And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage queen,
hither: let it be thy lint service, go.
Because she was enforced, stain'd, and deflower'd?
And yet within these five hours lived Lord Hastings,
Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch,
universal world, or in France, or in England!
You have obtain'd it.
To whom I sued for my dear son's life,
men are April when they woo, December when they wed:
By him that made me, I'll maintain my words
Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come
Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name--
The wretched animal heaved forth such groans
She'll flay thy wolvish visage. Thou shalt find
I warrant I love you more than you do me.
There's something in me that reproves my fault,
Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
The bitter clamour of two eager tongues,
A Roman with a Roman's heart can suffer:
then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician.
We will bestow you in some better place,
We'll speak it, then.
Come, noble Burgundy.
You do mistake your business, my brother never
Or else what lets it but he would be here?
O princely Buckingham I'll kiss thy hand,
Unless it have a false interpeter.
Which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink. Sit down,
A cousin-german to great Priam's seed,
That he hath left part of his grief with me,
Enter a Lord
Exeunt
But, in my mind, that were no policy:
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
With one that, in her sex, her years, profession,
But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do.
Enter TROILUS armed, and PANDARUS
Where is the queen?
your poor disposer's sick.
O, if I thought that I'ld beat him like a dog!
Bring forth that sorceress condemn'd to burn.
She is too subtle for thee, and her smoothness,
As 'twere from us all, a man distill'd
One vice, but of a minute old, for one
Master, there is three carters, three shepherds,
Where I have lived at honest freedom, paid
unlawfully born. But, O, how much is the good duke
All the better, their fraction is more our wish than
Why seek'st thou me? could not this make thee know,
I will not kiss thee, then the rot returns
Which of you have done this?
I seek not to wax great by others' waning,
I little like.
Even to the very quality of my lord:
'Tis now but four o'clock: we have two hours
And here we wander in illusions:
Get you hence, sirrah, saucy fellow, hence!
bawdy-houses, and one poor penny-worth of
SCENE I. KING HENRY IV's camp near Shrewsbury.
Stuck with cloves.
Ere bloody hands were wash'd, with such a peace.
The which if He be pleased I shall perform,
She shall be habited as it becomes
Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror,
And, hark, what discord follows! each thing meets
But my outside to behold:
But that I do not.
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
I had rather be a country servant-maid
Yes, by Saint Anne, and ginger shall be hot i' the
Help me, help me!
For art and exercise in your defence
Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice, and desire
Each drop of us.
Were a sufficient briber for his life.
to be delivered as far as Charing-cross.
venturing.
awhile with the maid: my mind promises with my
It is religion to be thus forsworn,
A piece of work that will make sick men whole.
How if fair and foolish?
Tabours and cymbals and the shouting Romans,
I pray you.
Away with her, and waft her hence to France.
Not for because
Else, when he's found, that hour is his last.
fools are as like husbands as pilchards are to
You had more beard when I last saw you, but your
I weigh my friend's affection with mine own,
Had sent to me first, but for my mind's sake,
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
Believe me, there's an ill opinion spread then
Against the blood that thou hast married?
Enter a Carrier with a lantern in his hand
As asses are.
Ay, Timon.
Meantime let wonder seem familiar,
She's bitter to her country: hear me, Paris:
learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure.
Your grace must needs deserve all strangers' loves,
Let's then determine
Doth any here know me? This is not Lear:
But it sufficeth that the day will end,
Of impious stubbornness, 'tis unmanly grief,
O wise young judge, how I do honour thee!
For it is done, my lord.
Less valiant than the virgin in the night
So you shall,
Put pardon, father Nestor, were your days
Ere stay behind this business.
Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,
Away, disperse: but till 'tis one o'clock,
To entertain these fair well-spoken days,
I know 'tis he. We are held as outlaws: hence!
With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs.
Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge:
Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they
her out of all nick.
Till then, enough. Come, friends.
Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
She soon shall know of us, by some of ours,
Most worthy prince, as yours, is true Guiderius:
Had circumvention? 'Tis not four days gone
Why, so I did.
be ready at the farthest by five of the clock. See
Why whisper you, my lords, and answer not?
As I do trust I am not--then, dear uncle,
Thou know'st we work by wit, and not by witchcraft,
call for him at supper, you will make his excuse.
Exit Ghost
my hope is better, and so look to thyself. Thy
do against a monarch! you may as well go about to
Spit in the hole, man, and tune again.
Upon his Irish expedition,
To make us wonder'd at in time to come.
Ay, but that fool knows not himself.
Which is not yet perform'd me.
the parings.
'Tis spoken well.
[Within]  Lead, boy: which way?
I like it well: good Grumio, fetch it me.
thee. Come, neighbour Mugs, we'll call up the
He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards. Stand,
That plats the manes of horses in the night,
Witness against us to damnation!
that my husband saw this letter! it would give
Unless the Dauphin be in presence here,
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Silence!
I mean, that with my soul I love thy daughter,
Re-enter Porter with keys
The washing of ten tides!
Nay, sir, but hear me on.
Yet, if this servile usage once offend.
Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and others
I did impeticos thy gratillity, for Malvolio's nose
What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?
be in that mind.
Must bide the touch, for, sir, at Shrewsbury,
Thy brother's love, our duty, and thy fault,
It likes me well. Biondello, hie you home,
Dashing the garment of this peace, aboded
Even he that makes her queen who should be else?
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
him that made the tailor, not be fit too? the
After life's fitful fever he sleeps well,
Already at my house.
Your cuckoo sings by kind.
Of thee, which says thus, 'Do my Lord of Canterbury
They have here propertied me, keep me in darkness,
Most certain, sir.
I will denounce a curse upon his head.
Poor I was slain when Bassianus died.
On your command.
But she as far surpasseth Sycorax
As words could make up vows: and, my good lord,
I'll set a bank of rue, sour herb of grace:
You have, Master Slender, I stand wholly for you:
Conspired with that irregulous devil, Cloten,
point, so to the full arming of the verity.
Re-enter EMILIA with IAGO
And this word 'love,' which graybeards call divine,
My husband!
Hang on her temples like a golden fleece,
The wise man's folly is anatomized
Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.
Must die to-morrow! O injurious love,
neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
Enter the Boy
Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius,
true purchasing.
Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me
Exeunt
In all this presence that hath moved me so.
Come hither, you that would be combatants:
What, have I choked you with an argosy?
How sharp the point of this remembrance is!--
Ere we depart, we'll share a bounteous time
They lose it that do buy it with much care:
In these to nature she's immediate heir,
in reputation. Reputation is an idle and most false
When crouching marrow in the bearer strong
Not so happy, yet much happier.
Thanks to my lord.
with no eyes. Look with thine ears: see how yond
Come to the king and tell him what miracle.
Will send thee hither both thy sons alive,
Were mine at once. No, come thou home, Rousillon,
Exeunt all but ULYSSES and NESTOR
Still did I tell him it was vile and bad.
And, throwing but shows of service on their lords,
at Milford-Haven: what your own love will out of
I' the sway of your own will. Is he array'd?
Shall be the war that Henry means to use.
Valiant Lord Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury,
inherits, which makes fair gifts fairer, for where
And greatness of his place be grief to us,
And when this arm of mine hath chastised
Though we have spent our harvest of this king,
When haply he shall hear that she is gone,
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks, but I
And make him weigh with her.
A drop of patience: but, alas, to make me
We have met with foes
For we are soft as our complexions are,
Whose note full many a man doth mark,
Is come with a great power to raise the siege.
Dear sir, ere long I'll visit you again.
Then you shall be his surety. Give him this
To clothe mine age with angel-like perfection,
And make distinct the very breach whereout
That therefore I have forged, or am not able
and spends what he borrows kindly in your company.
O, 'tis the spite of hell, the fiend's arch-mock,
Yet, if that quarrel, fortune, do divorce
Makes way, and run like swallows o'er the plain.
Enter the Ghosts of the two young Princes
And credulous to false prints.
Nay, pursue him now, lest the device take air and taint.
Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
mistress and be happy rivals in Bianco's love, to
Exeunt PRINCESS, ROSALINE, KATHARINE, and MARIA
Is nobler than attending for a cheque,
Will you deny me now?
But basely yielded upon compromise
stones, by gar, he shall not have a stone to throw
I would not for the world they saw thee here.
I am content to look on: what to speak,
Shared dangers with you,--
When every thing doth make a gleeful boast?
He does confess he feels himself distracted,
You must not speak of that: you must desire them
Bear with me, good boy, I am much forgetful.
SCENE I. Venice. A court of justice.
with thee.
Gazes on her
Oppress'd with wrongs and therefore full of fears,
They have e'en put my breath from me, the slaves.
Why dost not speak? what, deaf? not a word?
This compell'd fortune!--have your mouth fill'd up
to breakfast: after, we'll a-birding together, I
No matter: get thee gone,
I shall forestall thee, Lord Ulysses, thou!
Speakest thou from thy heart?
Arraign her first, 'tis Goneril. I here take my
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
When the most mighty gods by tokens send
More, she's a traitor and Camillo is
that your senses, unintelligent of our insufficience,
And sure I am two men there are not living
Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you:
Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted,
Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate.
Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of
Under your testy humour? By the gods
Ay, sir, from one Monsieur Biron, one of the strange
Here lie I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell,
When willingly I would have had her here!
Mine own, nor any thing to any, if
I will go wash,
I shall do so,
What folly 'tis to hazard life for ill!
And call'd it Rougemont: at which name I started,
The art of our necessities is strange,
Wrong right, base noble, old young, coward valiant.
The kiss you take is better than you give,
Nor his?
And he first took exceptions at this badge,
and place shall serve, that I am an ass.
My lord,
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
Thou common whore of mankind, that put'st odds
My lord should to the heavens be contrary,
Look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
conqueror, and it would do well to set the deer's
Because, forsooth, the king of Scots is crown'd.
If any wretch have put this in your head,
What will be said? what mockery will it be,
To seek her as a bed-fellow,
As doubtful whether what I see be true,
Grumio gave order how it should be done.
Thy foot to England's throne, and therefore mark.
What, will he not to bed?
Even when their sorrows almost were forgot,
And, vanquish'd as I am, I yield to thee,
Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least,
Make a short shrift, he longs to see your head.
Exit with his train. Flourish of cornets
Are to a wise man ports and happy havens.
And dimm'd mine eyes, that I can read no further.
live cleanly as a nobleman should do.
O, let no words, but deeds, revenge this treason!
ship-tire, the tire-valiant, or any tire of
I was going, sir,
And we shall have more wars before 't be long.
O, she's warm!
He's a sworn rioter: he has a sin that often
Nature and Fortune join'd to make thee great:
But, by the mass, our hearts are in the trim,
True,
Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day,
Shout. CHARLES is thrown
My widow says, thus she conceives her tale.
Into the staggers and the careless lapse
[Returning]  My lord, I would I might entreat
Then, on the other side, I cheque'd my friends.
To DULL
Approved so to your majesty, may plead
See that Claudio
Look to that, devil, lest that France repent,
Thy news Boyet?
Re-enter LUCETTA
Well urged, my Lord of Warwick: or sweet prince,
Before not dreamt of.
ANTIPHOLUS
'Thou liest' unto thee with a voice as free
Strumpet, thy words condemn thy brat and thee:
Exeunt
Now the wasted brands do glow,
Shows not till it be struck, our gentle flame
dauphin of France? Be it known unto thee by these
Fellow, wilt thou bestow thy time with me?
With modest warrant.
I have so: what of him?
To whose high will we bound our calm contents.
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
If he do not dote on her upon this, I will never
And many an error by the same example
The king of heaven forbid our lord the king
They lie in view, but have not spoke as yet.
Bid him prepare, for I will cut his throat.
With adorations, fertile tears,
When returns Cranmer?
She, I'll swear, hath corns, am I come near ye now?
He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
We will with some strange pastime solace them,
This seven years did not Talbot see his son,
With their superfluous riots, hear these tears!
Even for the loss of thee, having no more,
I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly,
Hold, Richard, hold, for we have done too much.
And I'll sing it.
access to thee.
With all my heart, gentlemen both, and how fare you?
Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.
Foul stigmatic, that's more than thou canst tell.
and squabble? swagger? swear? and discourse
And, like a troop of jolly huntsmen, come
Which I would fain shut out. If it should prove
Throws them down
Cassius, be content.
Go one, and call the Jew into the court.
[Within]  Nay, good my lord,--
He was perfumed like a milliner,
Timon is dead, who hath outstretch'd his span:
O virtuous fight,
Ay, my good lord.
Unwisely, not ignobly, have I given.
comest to thy father: if thou love me, practise an answer.
I am not guilty of Lysander's blood,
My noble brother!
Sexton too.
Let but the commons hear this testament--
And at the pit of Acheron
I myself have all the other,
With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
I'll plead for you myself, but you shall have
To suck, to suck, the very blood to suck!
Here she comes, curst and sad:
And graves have yawn'd, and yielded up their dead,
Sir, know you this glove?
there's a man, niece! Hem! Brave Troilus! the
Nay, that I can deny by a circumstance.
ANTIPHOLUS
O well a day, Lady, if he be not drawn now! we
his bargain, for he was never yet a breaker of
Sir, he doth in some sort confess it.
I promised to inquire carefully
You come to fright us.
If you will take a homely man's advice,
To tell thee whence thou camest, of whom derived,
And process of this time, you can report,
Your nobles will not hear you, but are gone
A green and gilded snake had wreathed itself,
Did practise on my state, your being in Egypt
Come, Friar Francis, be brief, only to the plain
Beginning in the middle, starting thence away
And know some nurture. But forbear, I say:
Look, here he comes,
Therefore thy threatening colours now wind up,
You were as flowers, now wither'd: even so
[Aside to DONALBAIN]  Why do we hold our tongues,
Is with a kind of colic pinch'd and vex'd
you: he beat me grievously, in the shape of a
will relent,
Who dares not stir by day must walk by night,
For the main soldier: whose quality, going on,
I would, that I might thank you as you call me.
How fiery and forward our pedant is!
Comes sneaking and so sucks her princely eggs,
Who goes there?
What should you do, but knock 'em down by the
sir, we had but two in the house, which at that very
Has he dined, canst thou tell? for I would not
Your worship, sir, or else I mistook.
And with our fair entreaties haste them on.
Which you are running here.
The truth on our side.
With this cramm'd reason: reason and respect
and delight to live in slavery to the nobility. Let
rivelled fee-simple of the tetter, take and take
Much more to be thus opposite with heaven,
Hail, great king!
And I'll devise a mean to draw the Moor
How shall she know my griefs? I'll drop the paper:
With fame, a name to Caius Marcius, these
I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,
In them I trust, for they are soldiers,
For being more stone than it? O royal piece,
Walk aside the true folk, and let the traitors stay.
Not to outsport discretion.
Soon after that, deprived him of his life,
O, I am stabb'd with laughter! Where's her grace?
In peril to incur your former malady,
Where never man's eye may behold my body:
'Tis death to me to be at enmity,
Than let him so be lost. O most kind maid,
I will, my lord, and doubt not so to deal
The mort o' the deer, O, that is entertainment
He writes his name with his staff, and guides it with feet and mouth
Hold you his hands, whilst I do set it on.
What is Thisby? a wandering knight?
Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes,
I think 'twill serve, if he
While you perform your antic round:
So full of dismal terror was the time!
The selfsame name, but one of better nature.
Which I could with a ready guess declare,
If that the youth of my new interest here
impatience: the gods reward your kindness!
Your faithful servant: I dare lay mine honour
To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
Than what he chooses.
but what mystery there should be in hanging, if I
As thus, 'Come, little ones,' and then again,
Pardon me, noble lord:
Set them into confounding odds, that beasts
And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories
Whilst I had been like heedful of the other:
No.
And therefore tell her I return great thanks,
Determined of, how I must climb her window,
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble
Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
livelihood from her cheek. No more of this, Helena,
For no name fits thy nature but thy own!
And I, forsooth, in love! I, that have been love's whip,
Patron of virtue, Rome's best champion,
No my lord,
Exit
Jesus preserve your royal majesty!
I'll stay with patience, but the time is long.
Good morrow to the good Simonides.
Good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear
Till all the Andronici be made away.
I'll do his country service.
Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues,--
Go home to bed, and like the owl by day,
No, for my manly heart doth yearn.
The other rotted with delicious feed.
Let us to the great supper: their cheer is the
As it hath used to do, that I have found
That she, that even but now was your best object,
Lord, I'll stab thee.
And liquor likewise will I give to thee,
Exit
Digest it with a custom, I should blush
[Reads]  'By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the
My good lords both, with all the heed I may.
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
SCENE I. Before LEONATO'S house.
How, sir! do you meddle with my master?
Drawing
Thersites!
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
speak, my fair, and fairly, I pray thee.
Of raging waste? It cannot hold, it will not.
Hie, good Sir Michael, bear this sealed brief
First mend my company, take away thyself.
Hang her! I do but say what she is: so delicate
SCENE II. The same. Garden of JULIA's house.
There was a man--
grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with
not brown neither,--
And target. Still he mends,
But what I am, want teaches me to think on:
For I have seen more years, I'm sure, than ye.
The legate of the pope hath been with me,
Not what you have reserved, nor what acknowledged,
court, shepherd?
That he have his. Call up some gentlemen.
I am sorry
Whose tenors and particular effects
Shake thou to look on 't. Get thee back to Caesar,
Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner.
Ha! who calls?
My tender years, and let us not forego
Forsook his scene and enter'd in a brake
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS
drunkest last.
When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound,
How! Was it we? we loved him but, like beasts
And you have found me, for accordingly
But love, fair looks and true obedience,
Doubt not
To stop all hopes whose growth may damage me.
I will not be afraid of death and bane,
Lechery, lechery, still, wars and lechery, nothing
land-service, to see how the bear tore out his
For if thou path, thy native semblance on,
There is no wrong, but every thing is right.
Ay, sir, I have a pretty wit.
To do worse to you were fell cruelty,
I will encounter with Andronicus,
what things are we!
The beauty that is borne here in the face
I yet not understand the case myself.
In your behalf still will I wear the same.
Nor now I had not, but that I am bound
So I lose none
another experiment of his suspicion: but I am glad
Then, if thou grant'st thou'rt a man, I have forgot thee.
God Neptune's annual feast to keep: from whence
By the simplicity of Venus' doves,
inventoried, and every particle and utensil
That were hard to compass,
Account me not your servant.
Ingrateful, savage and inhuman creature!
That strew the green lap of the new come spring?
Exit LUCIUS
Am bound to under-bear.
Tied it by letters-patents: now, who'll take it?
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
Yes, faith, and all his lords, the Duke of Milan
This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly,
When she will play with reason and discourse,
it?
And on the pieces of the broken wand
Is she sole child to the king?
A messenger from Henry, our dread liege,
Here once again we sit, once again crown'd,
Here she is now: swear the oaths now to her that
To do a thing, where I the issue doubted,
As broad and general as the casing air:
considering the weather, a taller man than I will
Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
Marry, that with no man here he is offended,
Enter FORTINBRAS, the English Ambassadors, and others
Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?
Which native she doth owe.
A traitor to my God, my king, and me:
Passion, I see, is catching, for mine eyes,
clown, abandon,--which is in the vulgar leave,--the
'Tis most convenient, pray you, go with us.
For my little cure,
Wert thou environ'd with a brazen wall.
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, MOTH, and COSTARD
It is my father's will I should take on me
Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
I learn'd in Worcester, as I rode along,
I wish you well, and so I take my leave.
And his to me:
O Lord! my boy, my Arthur, my fair son!
Ask nothing, give it him, it foals me, straight,
Are bound to pray for you both.
But, in defence, by mercy, 'tis most just.
If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love,
Then leave him out.
And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle:
Tell him, my mourning weeds are laid aside,
Flying between the cold moon and the earth,
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
Sir, I desire you do me right and justice,
Shall witness to him I am near at home,
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Warwick is chancellor and the lord of Calais,
Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO
Is this the generation of love? hot blood, hot
All that is mine I leave at thy dispose,
The tongues of soothers, but a braver place
All days of glory, joy and happiness.
But was a petty servant to the state,
This day, in argument upon a case,
To Brecknock, while my fearful head is on!
I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban.
If they demand: beware of being captives,
please you, Sir Nathaniel?
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
Exeunt
Give me your hand and say you will be mine.
what he gets more of her than sharp words, let it
That thou art so inhuman,--'twill not prove so,--
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol?
Committed! O thou public commoner!
A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
Infer the bastardy of Edward's children:
And dare us with his cap like larks.
Into a towering passion.
Pardon me, Margaret, pardon me, sweet son:
He is within, with two right reverend fathers,
Besides, I like you not. If you will know my house,
He is but outside: these pencill'd figures are
How fares your grace?
Did your letters pierce the queen to any
And will maintain what thou hast said is false
Why will you kill me?
Is it not meant damnable in us, to be trumpeters of
That under covert and convenient seeming
This bald unjointed chat of his, my lord,
With our own charge, making a treaty where
Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs
So I, admiring of his qualities:
And then you would have tarried. Hark!
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
losing of hope by time.
Knit earth and heaven together!
Whither I go, thither shall you go too,
said she, 'a fine little one.' 'No,' said I, 'a
Enter the Mayor and two Aldermen, below
Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to
brother the new duke, and three or four loving lords
some laudable attempt either of valour or policy.
My precious queen, forbear,
But 'twas thy heavenly face that set me on.
And deck my body in gay ornaments,
Till Henry, surfeiting in joys of love,
and of very liberal conceit.
this letter to Mistress Page, and thou this to
As fearfully as doth a galled rock
Despite his nice fence and his active practise,
Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.
Noise within
on the highway: beating and hanging are terrors to
Either to be restored to my blood,
women in men's apparel, and smell like Bucklersbury
O, help!
Most honour'd Timon,
Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate
Here 'tis, here's a paper: shall I read it to you?
If he were putting to my house the brand
Because his fathers are more beautiful?
A ramping fool, to brag and stamp and swear
My noble father, Henry of Buckingham,
The very firstlings of my heart shall be
And our oppression hath made up this league.
Is't possible?
Dost seem so ignorant, we'll enforce it from thee
To cut the head off and then hack the limbs,
Bark when their fellows do: by some of these
bond-slave?
Here comes my noble gull-catcher.
Here, said they, is the terror of the French,
Without her, follows to this land and me,
Exit
Women and fools, break off your conference.
If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword,
desert before his birth, and, being born, his addition
For thou must now know farther.
The advantage of the time prompts me aloud
Old men forget: yet all shall be forgot,
And after-dinner's breath.
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
these boiled brains of nineteen and two-and-twenty
Only in bone, that none may look on you!
Scratch my head Peaseblossom. Where's Mounsieur Cobweb?
you.
praise, too brown for a fair praise and too little
To let him there a month behind the gest
A plum-tree, master.
But now thou seem'st a coward.
And when thou hast given it the emperor,
spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by,
How! wear the garland! dost thou mean the crown?
He is my prisoner: if I let him go,
Your majesty loads our house: for those of old,
Either your unparagoned mistress is dead, or she's
Ay, now my sovereign speaketh like himself,
Happily we met, the happier for thy son.
Which our profane hours here have stricken down.
And make the wars alike against my stomach,
And not upon your maid.
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
I had rather seal my lips, than, to my peril,
No cock of mine, you crow too like a craven.
In few, they hurried us aboard a bark,
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
Let's be no stoics nor no stocks, I pray,
Journeys end in lovers meeting,
How well supplied with noble counsellors,
Where is the horse that doth untread again
Is not that he?
More than our brother is our chastity.
Have you seen my cousin?
And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell
--a most contagious treason come to light, look
To search you out.
It made me laugh to see the villain run.
Then he hath wrong'd himself, if he be free,
That will encounter with our glorious sun,
Give me thy hand. I had a thing to say,
Your gentle hands lend us, and take our hearts.
But that they left me 'midst my enemies.
The world shall not be ransom for thy life.
Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift,
Wrench it open,
There might have been,
Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
else be incontinent before marriage: they are in
You shall become true liegemen to his crown:
O, let me look!
This is thy work: the object poisons sight,
I will not look upon your master's lines:
I will go seek him. Cassio, walk hereabout:
This is the monstruosity in love, lady, that the will
You charge me most unjustly.
I thank you for your company, but, good faith, I had
I'll throw thy body in another room
Part of thy father may be saved in thee.
Poor key-cold figure of a holy king!
Whose church-like humours fits not for a crown.
And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes,
I'll meet thee, Pyramus, at Ninny's tomb.
rather, the prophecy like the parrot, 'beware the
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
Give me leave, beseech you. I did send,
To try a larger fortune.
By self-unable motion: therefore dare not
Why, no, no more than reason.
Have smit my credit: I love and honour him,
questions.
Now do your duty throughly, I advise you:
Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
She do defeat us, for her life in Rome
My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago.
A plague upon you all! His royal person,--
A space whose every cubit
But break, my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
Princely in both.
The word is too good to paint out her wickedness, I
We will make fast within a hallow'd verge.
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
O heavens forfend!
A canvas-climber. 'Ha!' says one, 'wilt out?'
Thou shalt stand cursed and excommunicate.
Whether our daughter were legitimate,
Gone slightly o'er low steps and now are mounted
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
It is an honour 'longing to our house,
not peep: an if thou darest,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Give me the cup: let go, by heaven, I'll have't.
Upon this shore, where you were wreck'd, was landed,
thou shalt find I will most kindly requite. I had
In this dull world, which in thy absence is
Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be
These unknown friends to's welcome, for it is
When brewers mar their malt with water,
Harp on that still--but by our putting on,
Here comes my messenger.
And fix most firm thy resolution.
And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change,
Hence! wilt thou lift up Olympus?
But Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom
He is not emulous, as Achilles is.
Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom,
O'erblows the filthy and contagious clouds
I left no ring with her: what means this lady?
I therein do forget.
put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder,
[Kneeling]  O you mighty gods!
Papers of state he sent me to peruse,
So many folds of favour. Sure, her offence
Whiles yet the cool and temperate wind of grace
Not to-night, good Iago: I have very poor and
Alas, you know not: I must tell you then:
Then should you be nothing but musical for you are
Is gone with her along, and I must after,
Since that our brother dubb'd them gentlewomen.
man to teach her that wherein she delights, I will
Then Antony,--but now--Well, on.
Made good guard for itself.
shall be humble. Few words to fair faith: Troilus
Upon a homely object Love can wink.
[Picking his pocket]
carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to
That this foul deed shall smell above the earth
RICHARD
To pluck me by the beard.
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves:'
I see before me, man: nor here, nor here,
Who, Hero?
We hate the prince of Tyre, and thou must kill him:
Had you a special warrant for the deed?
Take heed you dally not before your king,
Have there injointed them with an after fleet.
Would then be nothing: truths would be tales,
We must not only arm to invade the French,
O, ransom, ransom! do not hide mine eyes.
Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
Who has done this, Sir Andrew?
Why lifts she up her arms in sequence thus?
One twelve moons more she'll wear Diana's livery,
That it was he in the times past which held you
This was the noblest Roman of them all:
And cull their flower, Ajax shall cope the best.
Good king, that must approve the common saw,
Till you know better how to handle it.
open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is
What, am I poor of late?
If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
Your part in her you could not keep from death,
Go take up these clothes here quickly. Where's the
And, Henry, hadst thou sway'd as kings should do,
O, doubt not that,
Why does be ask him of me?
And honest Casca, we have the falling sickness.
places alike. Make not a city feast of it, to let
Hark ye, Master Slender would speak a word with you.
This man may help me to his majesty's ear,
And pluck the crown from feeble Henry's head:
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
And were our father and this son like him,
Do you quarrel, sir?
Men at some time are masters of their fates:
the least syllable of thy addition.
When I am known aright, you shall not grieve
Exit
Enter the QUEEN and two Ladies
Then I will give you the serving-creature.
Away, you trifler! Love! I love thee not,
I am very glad of it: I'll plague him, I'll torture
Horns winded within
And his more braver daughter could control thee,
Exit
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years,
Show!
bridge as you shall see in a summer's day. But it
They are the faction. O conspiracy,
Which here you come to accuse.
Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable:
Marina thus the brothel 'scapes, and chances
Evermore cross'd and cross'd, nothing but cross'd!
How far you satisfied me.
Beyond imagination is the wrong
I will be hang'd, if some eternal villain,
What's here? the portrait of a blinking idiot,
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
before to make a fire, and they are coming after to
Not I, for this fair island:
And bid him come to take his last farewell.
To smooth the ice, or add another hue
Or had he 'scaped, methinks we should have heard
acre of barren ground, long heath, brown furze, any
Camillo was his help in this, his pander:
Being an ordinary inundation,
But who comes here? I am invisible,
Though now we must appear bloody and cruel,
It is no shame: the fellow finds his vein,
Shall we go see the reliques of this town?
Had ever scar for.
In sign of league and amity with thee:
That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with her,
due of a bawd, why, 'tis his right: bawd is he
Here is the guess of their true strength and forces
That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
Come, sir, I pray you, go.
He is ready at the door: he comes, my lord.
Is only Helena. To her, my lord,
fingres, de mails--
Your wife, your son, these senators, the nobles,
Why, 'tis a gull, a fool, a rogue, that now and then
Our offices and what we have to do
That has been blue, but not her eyebrows.
At the first opening of the gorgeous east,
Know'st thou Fluellen?
Although my last: no matter, since I feel
Speak to her, Hamlet.
In killing creatures vile, as cats and dogs,
held my duty speedily to acquaint you withal,
Look, here's thy love: my foot and her face see.
Well hast thou spoken, cousin: be it so.
With being nothing. Music do I hear?
Hark! a retire upon our Grecian part.
And make a sop of all this solid globe:
Not he, I hope.
Honour hath no skill in surgery, then? no. What is
Enter POLONIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
I tell thee, Jack Cade the clothier means to dress
Ha, no, no, faith, thou singest well enough for a shift.
Are well foretold that danger lurks within.
Chaos is come again.
were married. Here comes Beatrice. By this day!
But the strong base and building of my love
It would control my dam's god, Setebos,
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
My lord the Duke of Buckingham, and Earl
O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone.
but when he performs, astronomers foretell it, it
Smother'd in errors, feeble, shallow, weak,
And that thy summer bred us no increase,
Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France,
more owing her than is paid, and more shall be paid
What, would you have my weapon, little lord?
Foul wrinkled witch, what makest thou in my sight?
with a kiss, and let not him speak neither.
Thy brother being carelessly encamp'd,
And my pretext to strike at him admits
Had the full view of, such a noise arose
Against some part of Poland.
stole from Florence, taking no leave, and I follow
Sleeps
Wink each at other, hold the sweet jest up:
Citizens steal away. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
It doth so, holy sir, and there's my master,
To square for this? would it offend you, then
Here's goodly work!
You may command us, sir.
Then leave me not, my lords, be resolute,
met but they looked, no sooner looked but they
I have no superfluous leisure, my stay must be
Shall, for thy love, kill a far truer love,
Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges.
had rather go with sir priest than sir knight: I
Grecian, thou dost not use me courteously,
I might know more.
Is this of hers! Lord cardinal, will your grace
An't shall please your majesty, I never said nor
events in the womb of time which will be delivered.
Good night, Titinius. Noble, noble Cassius,
'Gainst him whose wrong gives edge unto the swords
And lo, where George of Clarence sweeps along,
Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set
Yes, one place else, if you will hear me name it.
Flaminius, you are very respectively welcome, sir.
Thy spirits all of comfort! fare thee well.
Thou dost so crown with gold! This blows my heart:
Or banished fair England's territories,
If we be not, show us the hand of God
Truly, the souls of men are full of dread:
Hear you, Patroclus:
And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy,
attempted? Love is a familiar, Love is a devil:
Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
That in their chains fetter'd the kingly lion
Whether these pearls of praise be his or no,
Would I might
O, teach me how you look, and with what art
Soundly invite him--his two chamberlains
What I can do can do no hurt to try,
In blood of those that had encounter'd him:
Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power?
nor this is not my nose neither. Nothing that is so is so.
wife. 'Rivo!' says the drunkard. Call in ribs, call in tallow.
We will talk no more of this matter.
Wars have not wasted it, for warr'd he hath not,
Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?
And by the royalties of both your bloods,
For this down-trodden equity, we tread
Can he be angry? I have seen the cannon,
It fits us then to be as provident
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let us not leave till all our own be won.
When I was young, as yet I am not old,
They do discharge their shot of courtesy:
I would always have one play but one thing.
Or else reproach be Talbot's greatest fame!
This will I do, and soon return again.
That hast deceived so many with thy vows?
I guess not.
Commends me to the thing I cannot get.
What, Curio?
State-statues only.
Still as the grave. Shall she come in? were't good?--
Well, then, no more but this: go, gentle Catesby,
Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit,
An I cannot, another can.
What viler thing upon the earth than friends
From those you sent to the oracle are come
Her stature to an inch, as wand-like straight,
'Tis, marvel, but that you are but newly come,
O, treble woe
Those heavenly eyes, that look into these faults,
Give mine the benefit of seniory,
That shouldst repair my youth, thou heap'st
Come hither: ah, you precious pander! Villain,
How dost thou like this jewel, Apemantus?
wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun:
Give signs, sweet girl, for here are none
there was very little honour showed in't. For my own
And therewithal to win me, if you please,
Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks,
Follow me.
It will let in and out the enemy
'Twill not, Sir Thomas Lovell, take't of me,
O, do ye read, my lord, what she hath writ?
and set London bridge on fire, and, if you can, burn
Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood,
Too cruel any where.
go into this closet: he will not stay long.
Enter LORENZO, JESSICA, and SALERIO, a Messenger from Venice
Some good man bear him carefully from hence,
Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!
These many, then, shall die, their names are prick'd.
Of present dues: the future comes apace:
And great affinity, and that in wholesome wisdom
I had lived a blessed time, for, from this instant,
Keep the peace, I say.
I slew the coward, and did take it from him.
Commend me to my brother: soon at night
A pair so famous. High events as these
desert. Cheerly, good Adam!
if peradventure this be true. Go you and tell her of it.
You spy! what do you spy? Come, give me an
thyself execute, to make one among these wooers: if
more choler.
There sleeps Titania sometime of the night,
You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me:
By bud of nobler race: this is an art
Prettily, methought, did play the orator.
And, as the jest did glance away from me,
Let this be so, and doubt not but success
SCENE III. A room in Sempronius' house.
Now, Apemantus, if thou wert not sullen, I would be
Voice and favour!
Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch Sycorax,
Boy, I do love that country girl that I took in the
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
Exit
Am I the first that have been perjured so?
The good humour is to steal at a minute's rest.
To make me blest or cursed'st among men.
need not to be ashamed of your majesty, praised be
Till you have done your business in the city:
Myself have often heard him say and swear
Tanta est erga te mentis integritas, regina
SCENE II. A public road near Coventry.
Applaud the name of Henry with your leader.
What trumpet's that?
Is't possible?
Were gracious in those princely eyes of thine,
I like it never the better for that. Does he lie at
My Ariel, chick,
Surrey, thou liest.
A foolish suitor to a wedded lady,
I humbly beseech you, proceed to the affairs of state.
No.
Prosper this realm, keep it from civil broils,
No slander, they steal hearts.
Masters, the duke is coming from the temple, and
Henry the Eighth, life, honour, name and all
Have you not made an universal shout,
gently considered, I'll bring you where he is
Come, let us take a muster speedily:
impieties for the which they are now visited. Every
No, I will not cast away my physic but on those that
Thy business?
How! my issue!
The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd, the
dashed out with a Grecian club, yet he did what he
I warrant you, my lord, more grace than boy.
We are but men, and what so many may do,
And hold thee to my heart.
Why is this reason'd?
How could he see to do them? having made one,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
hinder not the honour of his design: let him fetch
'Aio te, AEacida, Romanos vincere posse.'
The name of help grew odious to repeat.
Doth long to see unarm'd the valiant Hector.
Aside
And yet, incaged in so small a verge,
Were born to see so sad an hour as this,
God save you, gentlemen!
For shame! leave Henry, and call Edward king.
In reckoning up the several devils' names
To pay their awful duty to our presence?
Your servants ever
To entertain't so merrily with a fool.
Which cannot choose but bring him quickly on.
And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
Committing me unto my brother's love,
Nothing so certain as your anchors, who
He'll stop the course by which it might be known,
My traffic is sheets, when the kite builds, look to
A golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men,
'Gainst us, our state, our subjects, or our land.
Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
She took the ring of me: I'll none of it.
No, madam, so it stead you, I will write
What towns of any moment but we have?
How now! where's thy master? at my cousin
cause is, calling both the parties knaves. You are
Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death,
That is not glad to see thee! You are three
Had been alive this hour,
Excellent! Your lordship's a goodly villain. The
If we mean to thrive and do good, break open the
man for coughing in the street, because he hath
light is an effect of fire, and fire will burn,
What say'st thou, Kate? what would'st thou
My half-supp'd sword, that frankly would have fed,
Strong-fixed is the house of Lancaster,
This business is well ended.
Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream,
Why, what, i' devil's name, tailor, call'st thou this?
That should be in a Roman you do want,
They are in a trunk,
But since she did neglect her looking-glass
Exeunt
The sun shines hot, and, if we use delay,
Perplex'd in all. The heavens still must work.
Though my mocks come home by me, I will now be merry.
good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination:
Never talk to me, I will weep.
Exeunt
O Hamlet, speak no more:
On whom depending, their obedience fails
We shall all be shent. Run in here, good young man,
With any just reproach?
Before I make reply to aught you say.
You here shall swear upon this sword of justice,
philosopher when he grows old, being so full of
your leek? there is not enough leek to swear by.
And therefore, like herself, wise, fair and true,
Whence is that knocking?
To a determined scope.
And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
What said Popilius Lena?
Stay:
Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.
'Achilles hath the mighty Hector slain.'
In ranks and squadrons and right form of war,
I would not wed her for a mine of gold.
Let her not hurt me: I was never curst,
'Tis all engaged, some forfeited and gone,
Come, bring me where they are.
what she would have given, briefly, I have pursued
The eating canker dwells, so eating love
Here Aaron is, and what with Aaron now?
With all my heart, and it doth much content me
Young Harry Percy and brave Archibald,
Now go with me and with this holy man
My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care,
An therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions,
My lord, your loving nephew now is come.
Mischance unto my state by Suffolk's means:
From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck.
You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
It is enough you know, and it is fit,
But answer made it none: yet once methought
Like an Olympian wrestling: this have I seen,
That ever I have felt.
looked on.
Enter SEMPRONIUS, and a Servant of TIMON's
If so, I pray thee, breathe it in mine ear,
valour is discretion, in the which better part I
Why art thou angry?
You know me by my habit.
Eighty odd years of sorrow have I seen,
Shall disturb this hallow'd house:
No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en:
Never was monarch better fear'd and loved
What seest thou in me, York? why dost thou pause?
As often as I guess'd.
be it spoken. I should quickly leap into a wife.
Dear my lord, if you, in your own proof,
As if he master'd there a double spirit.
On some great sudden hest. O, what portents are these?
And be a carrion monster like thyself:
If they have overheard me now, why, hanging.
A sad tale's best for winter: I have one
If every one knows us and we know none,
And with submissive loyalty of heart
Mock-vater! vat is dat?
Than Rhodope's or Memphis' ever was:
your lord's taking of this. Receive it so.
When the day serves, before black-corner'd night,
At the lower end of the hall, hurl'd up their caps,
I could match this beginning with an old tale.
Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
But I go away with two.
Then live, Macduff: what need I fear of thee?
Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret,
Guide thou the sword.
Once, in a sea-fight, 'gainst the count his galleys
Peace, sirrah!
All that served Brutus, I will entertain them.
A cause more promising
Enter MARIA
For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
A sibyl, that had number'd in the world
did but try us this other day.
that without any further delay than this very evening.
The wish would make else an unquiet house.
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
And that which should accompany old age,
Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an
Marry sir, such claim as you would lay to your
Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift
Come buy of me, come, come buy, come buy,
My heart for anger burns, I cannot brook it.
Commencing in a truth? I am thane of Cawdor:
By rule of knighthood, I disdain and spurn:
slept in the contriving of lust, and waked to do it:
Not I, unless the breath of heartsick groans,
Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge,
that kills my heart.
That her wide walls encompass'd but one man?
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
We will be short with you. 'Tis his highness' pleasure,
creature in resemblance of the mother, the affection
right-hand file? do you?
Why do you speak so faintly?
Would I might never stir from off this place,
My work hath yet not warm'd me: fare you well:
Enter URSULA
Grumio, mum! God save you, Signior Gremio.
I barely gratify your love, they failing,
And cited up a thousand fearful times,
Is empty on the back of Montague,--
And in the spirit of men there is no blood:
And Lord Scales with him and Lord Hungerford:
loathsomest scab in Greece. When thou art forth in
That tidings came,--with this she fell distract,
second cock: and drink, sir, is a great
Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent,
dozen of them two hours together. I have 'scaped by
Here, sir.
O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
But now the Duke of Buckingham and I
Under what captain serve you?
I'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead.
To praise him more than ever man did merit:
To tell you once again that at my birth
I thank your honour. For my part, my lord,
warm them. Now, were not I a little pot and soon
That strike beside us.
Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin.
and oblique memorial of cuckolds, a thrifty
Which, by the right and virtue of my place,
SCENE VI. Rome. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
Nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship.
That I desire to hear her speak again,
I shall promulgate--I fetch my life and being
pierced, which is the one?
Would I not leap upright.
To whom being going, almost spent with hunger,
leave to in the crop, if I be his cuckold, he's my
Have I disbursed to the garrisons,
Exeunt KING RICHARD II, some Lords, and a Guard
Whilst you have fed upon my signories,
Give me your hand, Orlando. What do you say, sister?
With Lady Margery, your midwife there,
That gentleman of Buckingham's, in person
And every hair that's on't, Helen, that's dead,
Moves in this lip! to the dumbness of the gesture
I'll halt after.
And makes each petty artery in this body
SCENE I. Athens. The palace of THESEUS.
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,
To any one, nor taken sustenance
Exeunt all but KENT and Gentleman
villany should be so rich, for when rich villains
You will be schoolmaster
Even in theirs and in the commons' ears,
O, no! the apprehension of the good
Thou art true and honest, ingeniously I speak.
Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
moon, and let men say we be men of good government,
When they did say 'God bless us!'
deal with my master, he hath learnt me so much fence already.
The triple pillar of the world transform'd
In time of action. I stand condemn'd for this,
wear it in his cap: I promised to strike him, if he
And that's a feeling disputation:
To stir against the butchers of his life!
That ever lived in the tide of times.
Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,
not.
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
[Aside]  That every like is not the same, O Caesar,
If it be proved against an alien
The raven himself is hoarse
That they will waste their time upon our note,
We are impressed and engaged to fight,
Say, uncle Gloucester, if our brother come,
You look upon that sleeve, behold it well.
Of her awaking, here untimely lay
'Mong boys, grooms, and lackeys. But their pleasures
On the blest lovers.
Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?
No harm by it, though the gods hear, I hope
Against yourself.
Lest his ungovern'd rage dissolve the life
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
Cannot be mute,--or thought,--for cogitation
That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks
On whose eyes I might approve
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
We here create thee the first duke of Suffolk,
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
The devil take thy soul!
For peace, for love, for league, and good to Rome:
but for a fine, quaint, graceful and excellent
Of feather'd Cupid seal with wanton dullness
Here, take: the gods out of my misery
May prove his travel, not her danger.
I willingly obey your command.
impudency, learned without opinion, and strange with-
Enter HOLOFERNES, for Judas, and MOTH, for Hercules
Must rectify our knowledge.
I am resolved to bear a greater storm
Come on, my boy: how dost, my boy? art cold?
So soon did lose his seat and all at once
finds it so.
You are a thousand times a properer man
holy, cold, and still conversation.
Ay, and more.
Aside
Of Hymen's purest bed! thou valiant Mars!
This is the news: he fishes, drinks, and wastes
How now, wool-sack! what mutter you?
'Twere good, I think, your lordship sent him thither:
Go you before to Gloucester with these letters.
Split'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
Of her o'er-eaten faith, are bound to Diomed.
But, host, doth this Sir Proteus that we talk on
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
Doth more solicit me than your exclaims,
Of one I danced withal.
And I'll not wish thee to her.
Break with your wives of your departure hence:
report--after fourteen years' purchase.
This falls out better than I could devise.
In argument and proof of which contract,
Then, in our measure do but vouchsafe one change.
that is an old man and no honester than I.
Seals of love, but sealed in vain, sealed in vain.
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
And with declining head into his bosom,
No, first let's reason with him.
To avert your liking a more worthier way
Good signior, take the stranger to my house
Exit RODERIGO
O, never
To CRANMER
Already are i' the court.
My friend Stephano, signify, I pray you,
God save you, noble captain.
example my digression by some mighty precedent.
And so, conduct me where, from company,
Your fresh-fair virgins and your flowering infants.
Nine Worthies.
rogue: for, though it be night, yet the moon
Our madams mock at us, and plainly say
To offer service to the Duke of Hereford,
Play, music, then! Nay, you must do it soon.
No, I say nay to that.
Five have I slain to-day instead of him.
Could neither graze nor pierce?
DON
Alarum. Fight at sea. Ordnance goes off. Enter a  Captain, a Master, a Master's-mate, WALTER WHITMORE, and others, with them SUFFOLK, and others, prisoners
Their pangs of love, with other incident throes
The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,
Alas, how love can trifle with itself!
Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead,
Ay, my lord.
Outliving beauty's outward, with a mind
What! look upon my brother: both your pardons,
Cade more: I think he hath a very fair warning.
She bears a duke's revenues on her back,
The infant of your care, beseeching you
You are too senseless--obstinate, my lord,
With more than foreign heart. We every day
For the in which doth control't.
No, pray thee, let it serve for table-talk,
I think he be transform'd into a beast,
thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly with you.
By gar, he has save his soul, dat he is no come, he
With all the rest of that consorted crew,
Lapis.
Back'd by the power of Warwick, that false peer,
The gods do this in shame of cowardice:
The child-bed privilege denied, which 'longs
Came to me, as I follow'd Henry's corse,
A married life.
He did incline to sadness, and oft-times
Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee.
Note this before my notes,
At home, my lord.
You stand against anointed majesty.
To-morrow you shall have a sight of them.
Prithee, put up.
And so once more return and tell his grace.
Troilus, farewell! one eye yet looks on thee
Night hath been too brief.
And heartily, for our deliverance,
Believe it better than reportingly.
What say you, Hermia? be advised fair maid:
Yorkshire.
Hear it not, Duncan, for it is a knell
But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter,
He should receive his punishment in thanks:
As if he pluck'd up kisses by the roots
Or else a hovering temporizer, that
I did.
A saint-like sorrow: no fault could you make,
Although they gave their creatures in abundance,
And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
Our prisoners with the sword. But since the gods
The water which they beat to follow faster,
The jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes
From Milan.
So they must,
To quit this horrid act.
Grow from the king's acquaintance, by this carriage.
DON
Thus Joan la Pucelle hath perform'd her word.
I will enforce it easily to my love.
James Gurney, wilt thou give us leave awhile?
And what to your sworn counsel I have spoken
Well, let us go together.
You can fool no more money out of me at this throw:
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,
Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends,
I will then give it you soundly.
I cannot justify whom the law condemns.
thou been this month?
Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress, or
But, soft! here come my executioners.
There's no man happy, the purest of their wives
Such an act
A plague upon that villain Somerset,
Swallows have built
Ay, my noble lord.
And rear it in the place your father's stands.
That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
Forestall our sport, to make us thus untrue?
Even of the bonny beast he loved so well.
Aumerle, thou weep'st, my tender-hearted cousin!
They'll grind the one the other. Where's Antony?
SCENE III. Bohemia. A desert country near the sea.
Hence with it, and together with the dam
Methinks, should not be chronicled for wise.
Ye men of Cyprus, let her have your knees.
it is pity of her life, for it is a naughty house.
Not I.
Have you forgot me, sir?
Stain'd with the guiltless blood of innocents,
And by his rare example made the coward
Three times they breathed and three times did
And a half, sir.
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:
Give me thy hand
And being not done, where doing tends to ill,
To entertain your highness and your empress.
Insulting tyranny begins to jet
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
comes there any more of it?
Be silent, let's see further.
Out o' the moon, I do assure thee: I was the man i'
At a few drops of women's rheum, which are
Will render you no remedy, this ring
Horn-mad, thou villain!
But truth is truth: large lengths of seas and shores
Nay, Gloucester, know that thou art come too soon,
Sing, and dance it trippingly.
To talk of your good father. In his youth
It fits we thus proceed, or else no witness
May move your hearts to pity if you mark him.
You shall not be admitted to his sight.
But floods of tears will drown my oratory,
Yet she must die, else she'll betray more men.
Myself a former fortune.
country Greece gets more with begging than we can do
What's that, my lord?
Than feed on cates and have him talk to me
SCENE I. KING JOHN'S palace.
And were you well advised?
Throw me again.
While I do run upon it. Wilt thou, Strato?
A doubtful warrant of immediate death,
Unlocks the door
It is Brabantio. General, be advised,
Our tongues and sorrows do sound deep
Look thee, 'tis so! Thou singly honest man,
Now, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup.
Enter ARIEL
Him caper upright like a wild Morisco,
tell thee so before, because I would not fall out
Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
But, tell me, is young George Stanley living?
Who wrongs him?
Petit monsieur, que dit-il?
Fairies use flowers for their charactery.
That never saw 'em pace before, the spavin
And work confusion on his enemies.
Began to crack: twice then the trumpets sounded,
Of no more force to dispossess me, sir,
Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee,
More richer than my tongue.
My rapier in his bosom and withal
fool's bolt is soon shot.'
Let's all cry 'Peace, freedom and liberty!'
What you do
Sennet. Here they come down
have the best use of eyes to see the way of
Where thou wilt hit me dead?
O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine,
And some ten voices cried 'God save King Richard!'
Stokesly and Gardiner, the one of Winchester,
way to the everlasting bonfire.
'Twill be naught:
And be false with them.
It is war's prize to take all vantages,
Thou know'st she has raised me from my sickly bed.
I cannot name the disease, and it is caught
What canst thou swear by now?
Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death,
'Twas my duty, sir.
Betwixt the Duke of Gloucester and your brothers,
How do you, gentlemen?
not hand a rope more, use your authority: if you
Convenient numbers to make good the city,
I do embrace thee, as I would embrace
Gall! bitter.
Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand,
So that, in this unjust divorce of us,
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
Aside
daughter: yet he knew me not at first, he said I
must needs confess,--
Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all,
this world goes.
My arm is sore, best play with Mardian.
How they at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd,
Be comforted:
I will not keep my word.
Truly, my name is Cinna.
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
We mourn, France smiles, we lose, they daily get,
Mark the high noises, and thyself bewray,
The frame and huge foundation of the earth
You look as you had something more to say.
Why tell you me of moderation?
kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.
The trumpery in my house, go bring it hither,
An if this be at all, a most strange story.
We'll make an instrument of this, omit
That fits as well as 'Tell me, good my lord,
Your grace is noble:
If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak
My services are bound. Wherefore should I
O, thou art wise, 'tis certain.
Might with effects of them follow our friends,
And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.
And he is bred out of that bloody strain
Come, neighbour.
But yet I call you servile ministers,
Who must hang them?
O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
Enter HAMLET
I left them all in health.
Not to them all.
'Tis true.
As my thoughts aim not at. Cassio's my worthy friend--
I'll do it in my shirt.
Whom I made lord of me and all I had,
This is the matter:--Nurse, give leave awhile,
What, shall we suffer this? let's pluck him down:
You made it known to us.
Both suffer under this complaint we bring,
Preoccupied with what you rather must do
He rather means to lodge you in the field,
I do repent me, as it is an evil,
I hear it sing i' the wind: yond same black
[Within]         Ho, daughter! are you up?
What! threat you me with telling of the king?
Than I stand debted to this gentleman:
steal as in a castle, cocksure, we have the receipt
Halloo your name to the reverberate hills
Now the condition.
It is too late, I cannot send them now:
For first he was contract to Lady Lucy--
Till we meet Warwick with his foreign power.
And give true evidence to his love, which stands
Of present death.
Either to die the death or to abjure
There cannot be a pinch in death
Smiled at their lack of skill, but found
pound, the last subsidy.
They have the more need to sleep now, then.
'Wonder of nature,'--
This is a lord! O noble misery,
hadst been still with me, I could have taught my
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, WESTMORELAND, EXETER, and the rest
hence the child?
His wife who wins me by that means I told you,
She is indeed perfection.
You shall be soon dispatch's with fair conditions:
'Tis meet I should be used so, very meet.
Of forfeiture, of justice and his bond.
Madam, I come to whet your gentle thoughts
It is not a fashion for the maids in France to kiss
too short,
Myself have letters of the selfsame tenor.
Thy reason, man?
He's honest, on mine honour. God's blest mother!
I'll make a shaft or a bolt on't: 'slid, 'tis but
Then must your brother die.
Nay, it is my maid's aunt of Brentford.
Neither regarding that she is my child
unserviceable: the troops are all scattered, and
Give me your neaf, Mounsieur Mustardseed. Pray you,
I should have fear'd her had she been a devil.'
Sir, your wit ambles well, it goes easily.
Unto whose grace our passion is as subject
together as they join wainscot, then one of you will
A great-sized monster of ingratitudes:
will, if you should refuse to accept him.
Corioli like a planet: now all's his:
And, for more slander to thy dismal seat,
These your unusual weeds to each part of you
I know this act shows horrible and grim.
Send thee by me, their tribune and their trust,
Great God of heaven, say Amen to all!
Do as I bid you. Where's this cup I call'd for?
Says suum, mun, ha, no, nonny.
despair, if they were not cherished by our virtues.
Your most grave belly was deliberate,
from whence he was whipped for getting the shrieve's
Your were is alike to reap a proper man:
A letter from the magnificent Armado.
And, like true subjects, sons of your progenitors,
Thanks, good my countryman.
O, 'tis the cunning livery of hell,
Gives the warrant
Can her contempt be answer'd?
This ornament of knighthood, yea or no.
But think you, Helen,
And thereupon these errors are arose.
kill him whom you have recovered, desire it not.
Pluck stout men's pillows from below their heads:
What, madam, are you there? the king and commonweal
Let me work,
cousin will say so.
The king is mad: how stiff is my vile sense,
The base is right, 'tis the base knave that jars.
I am his king, and he should bow his knee,
Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouthed and calumnious knave?
Virtue is choked with foul ambition
Yes, truly, I speak not as desiring more,
Clapp'd to their gates: he is himself alone,
Rather corrupt me ever!
And betwixt them and my lord chamberlain,
Thank you, sir: farewell.
And this is Geffrey's: in the name of God
Thank you, good lord archbishop:
This field shall hold me, and so hold your vow:
And welcome, all: although the cheer be poor,
thousand of these letters, writ with blank space for
What say you? can you love the gentleman?
A scullion!
good parts aside I have no other charms.
Nay, my lords,
Your grace hath still been famed for virtuous,
But even the very middle of my heart
[Aside]  If that go forward, Henry's hope is done.
A retreat is sounded
Most reverend and grave elders, to desire
I never came within these abbey-walls,
Master, shall I be porter at the gate?
In faith, it is exceedingly well aim'd.
Like a poor beggar, raileth on the rich.
Nor to comply with heat--the young affects
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
Thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty,
I'll die for't but some woman had the ring.
You tread upon my patience: but be sure
It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
That robb'd my soldiers of their heated spleen,
never fell upon our nation till now, I never felt it
Aaron, thou hast hit it.
And grieve to hear't.
I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn. I
For though he seem with forged quaint conceit
Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?
Good night.
But stay, here come the gardeners:
The enemy's in view, draw up your powers.
Not you, my brother, with your true sword drawn,
To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for.
Should have a back or second, that might hold,
Not of this country, though my chance is now
Of head-piece extraordinary? lower messes
That whoso ask'd her for his wife,
A mother's curse, on her revolting son.
Nay, keep your place.
[Reads]  I have sent you a daughter-in-law: she hath
And recks not his own rede.
From slaves that apes would beat! Pluto and hell!
Nor now my scandal, Richard, dost thou hear,
And shall it in more shame be further spoken,
May the two latter darken and expend,
Beneath is all the fiends',
Come, let's be gone.
And ere I take this charm from off her sight,
So is my horse, Octavius, and for that
is a basket: if he be of any reasonable stature, he
For ever and for ever shall be yours.
Above a number, if my actions
The whole realm, by your teaching and your chaplains,
You minion, you, are these your customers?
One that before the judgement carries poor souls to hell.
Of your soft cheveril conscience would receive,
From Dis's waggon! daffodils,
I would, therefore, my sister had had no name, sir.
Exeunt guard with MARGARET JOURDAIN, SOUTHWELL,  and c
And you have rung it lustily, my lord,
Exeunt Worthies
That I have room with Rome to curse awhile!
But, being mask'd, he was not sure of it,
Dyed in the dying slaughter of their foes:
But there is come a messenger before,
Have you no countermand for Claudio yet,
Of one or both of us the time is come.
Next, he's the governor of this country, and a man
Comes from my lord with letters.
And affecting one sole throne,
Do, most dear queen.
Who was sole heir to the usurper Capet,
Yearly will I do this rite.
Are number'd in the travel of one mile?
As gravity's revolt to wantonness.
Nor I, I would not there reside,
SCENE III. The same.
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Retire thee, go where thou art billeted:
SCENE V. Florence. Without the walls. A tucket afar off.
ACT IV
Enter two Citizens meeting
I wonder at it.
sufferance is a gain to them Let us revenge this with
Why, give it to my wife and fetch your money.
Have got a speeding trick to lay down ladies,
And thou shalt find a king that will revenge
And lead thy daughter to a conqueror's bed,
Of credit infinite, highly beloved,
Farewell: if heart's presages be not vain,
Than if you had at leisure known of this.
The map of honour, truth and loyalty:
Phebe, with all my heart.
Courageous Richmond, well hast thou acquit thee.
Then strike up drums: God and Saint George for us!
Villany, villany, villany!
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
That I revived, and was an emperor.
Alas the day! I never gave him cause.
When you shall these unlucky deeds relate,
Lions with toils and men with flatterers,
fourteen,' an hour after, 'a trifle, a trifle.' I
Corrupting in its own fertility.
'twill out at the key-hole, stop that, 'twill fly
I prithee, spare.
This is her question.
Master, your love must live a maid at home,
from his mad humour of love to a living humour of
Holds it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain?
in music and mathematics: his name is Cambio, pray,
My language! heavens!
I would this music would come: I am advised to give
O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
To save your subjects from such massacre
Than in my thought it lies.
A trembling contribution! Why, we take
Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I
able to lead her a coranto.
Past hope, and in despair, that way, past grace.
For slander lives upon succession,
As you that thus abuse me.
Know, if you kill me for my fault, I should
Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap:
Exeunt
Nothing but bonfires: the oracle is fulfilled, the
Exit
Take your rapier, Jack, I vill tell you how I vill kill him.
Then go thou forth,
hoof is more musical than the pipe of Hermes.
Wake and find nothing. But, alas, I swerve:
But, Valentine being gone, I'll quickly cross
And seeing ignorance is the curse of God,
Varro's
Ha, ha, ha!
Well, daughter, and you gentle-women all,
Delay not, Caesar, read it instantly.
Madam, they are for you.
not, that you are not the Jew's daughter.
Were it but told you, should be hooted at
Things won are done, joy's soul lies in the doing.
My utmost skill in his recovery, Provided
What need one?
I came before you here a man prepared
What, Buckingham and Clifford, are ye so brave? And
Raised by your populous troops: but you are come
England, from Trent and Severn hitherto,
Desiring thee to lay aside the sword
And it I will have, or I will have none.
Thou damned and luxurious mountain goat,
How now! what news?
Then I perceive that will be verified
Clambering the walls to eye him: stalls, bulks, windows,
For parting my fair Pyramus and me!
Leave, gentle wax, and, manners, blame us not:
With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart,
Ay, my good lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
Like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand,
Did I put Henry from his native right?
They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.
This is that banish'd haughty Montague,
The hand was fair before! I have put you out:
He must before the deputy, sir, he has given him
I would esteem him worth a dozen such.
You tell me true.
Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
Exit PRINCE HENRY
A kind good night to all!
Not to come off, in his displeasure.
In sight of England and her lordly peers,
any.
where he answers again,
The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good:
Pray, do not, sir: I have watched and travell'd hard,
Well, but what's o'clock?
I am sorry to hear this.
So leaves me to consider what is breeding
His leg is too big for Hector's.
Fair one, I think not so.
SCENE V. The Grecian camp. Lists set out.
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed,
I may spur on my journey.
What's he that hath so much thy place mistook
presently, where, for one shot of five pence, thou
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,
I have already delivered him letters, and there
Two long days' journey, lords, or ere we meet.
That staggers thus my person. Exton, thy fierce hand
For more than blushing comes to: if your back
Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you
Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
And set up Lancaster. Why, trow'st thou, Warwick,
And, to deal plainly,
Enter ACHILLES
And on this couple drop a blessed crown!
But yet a brain that leads my use of anger
Pray now, sit down.
For the flowers now, that frighted thou let'st fall
From the dejected state wherein he is,
Like water from ye, never found again
To you a charge and trouble: to save both,
Defiance, traitors, hurl we in your teeth:
As Neptune's park, ribbed and paled in
I'll bear thee hence, where I may weep my fill.
A round hose, madam, now's not worth a pin,
and here, Tom, take all the money that I have. O
Sweet York, be patient. Hear me, gentle liege.
his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.
Splits what it speaks: the wild disguise hath almost
DON
And I will please you what you will demand.
In private will I talk with thee apart.
Be bounteous at our meal.
That bear'st a cheek for blows, a head for wrongs,
Sir, let me be so bold as ask you,
And at the port expect you.
What if I do obey?
Upon their ancient malice will forget
To suffer with him. Good love, call him back.
Third trumpet
prove an ass.
Once, and a million!
O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily
Infect thy sap and live on thy confusion.
As of her tongue she oft bestows on me,
heaviness: of this contradiction you shall now be
To put the finger in the eye and weep,
himself on the forehead, crying, 'Peer out, peer
companies, slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the
And, in my company, my brother Gloucester,
down, I come to speak with her, indeed.
before us, instead of maces, will we ride through
Doubt not, my lord, they shall be well opposed.
Exeunt
Look you, these are the stops.
To tell thee that this day is ominous:
To the freshest things now reigning and make stale
Say, wast thou e'er contracted to this woman?
In those unfledged days was my wife a girl,
No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
I am satisfied in nature,
Turn your displeasure that way: for our faults
And send for money for 'em.
This weak impress of love is as a figure
And I beseech you come again to-morrow.
their books,
My lord, you do discomfort all the host!
O, she is lame! love's heralds should be thoughts,
Even of your mettle, of your very blood,
With all my imperfections on my head:
Qu'ai-j'oublie! dere is some simples in my closet,
Tongue-tied, our queen?
The help of heaven we count the act of men.
not as good a deed as drink, to turn true man and to
Rosalind, I am that he, that unfortunate he.
Enter OLIVIA with MALVOLIO
Kissing her
Here he ascendeth his throne
Away! I will not have to do with you.
Nothing will come of nothing: speak again.
No, for he could not so resign his crown
And knows all qualities, with a learned spirit,
A vessel under sail, so men obey'd
After such bloody toil, we bid good night,
If it be so, then both depart to him,
[To KING RICHARD III]
Such dreadful heralds to astonish us.
Lay negligent and loose regard upon him:
ailest thou, man?
As ever offer'd foul play in the state.
Fair leave and large security. How may
morning, but as a madman's epistles are no gospels,
My dear Othello!
O, he smiles valiantly.
And why, I pray you? Who might be your mother,
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
censured here in the city, I mean of us o' the
To the under generation, you shall find
One way or other, she is for a king,
But that's no argument for kissing now,
to. Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence, he
When you yourself did part them.
I'll answer that.
Exit
Re-enter PISANIO, with the clothes
We must forbear: here comes the gentleman,
'Fore me, this fellow speaks! What then? what then?
Or whether, riding on the balls of mine,
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
That I may save my speech: do but go after,
That, by the help of these--with Him above
And help to set a head on headless Rome.
Nothing.
'Tis much. Servants, leave me and her alone.
No, sir, but it is vara fine,
For this damsel, I must keep her at the park: she
King Richard, he is in the mighty hold
And on the justice of my flying hence,
You taught me first to beg, and now methinks
That mought not be distinguished, but at last
And keep their impious turbans on, without
Exeunt THURIO and Musicians
yet our horse not packed. What, ostler!
Look you, if you take the matter otherwise than is
O, world, how apt the poor are to be proud!
She that herself will sliver and disbranch
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE and NORTHUMBERLAND, with Forces
[To COSTARD]  Ah, you whoreson loggerhead! you were
Can you advise me?
If I pervert your course. Who's here?
'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
Of Coeur-de-lion knighted in the field.
directly to say 'I love you:' then if you urge me
And blown with restless violence round about
And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh
Shamed their aspect with store of childish drops:
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
And for thy treachery, what's more manifest?
She was beloved, she loved, she is, and doth:
Matchless Navarre, the plea of no less weight
In puny battle slay me.
And yet she takes exceptions at your person.
Hath hurt me more than had he killed me dead:
together at the latter day and cry all 'We died at
his soldiership I know not, except, in that country
As my two brothers, happy! but most miserable
And that which looks like pride is courtesy.
Bear her my true love's kiss, and so, farewell.
scarce obey this medicine.
Joy and all comfort in your sacred breast!
worthier than a village, so is the forehead of a
Soldiers, I thank you all, disperse yourselves,
To one of woman born.
The stumbling night did part our weary powers?
master, lose thy service, and, in losing thy
I never saw my father in my life.
Sir, I can nothing say,
So was I when your highness took his dukedom,
I did think, by the excellent constitution of thy
An hour before I came, the duchess died.
Friend, know me better, I am the Lord Pandarus.
Is more than one,
You are three men of sin, whom Destiny,
Than she a woman: 'tis such fools as you
[Within]  Qui est la?
the best and the fairest, that would have won any
His head from him: I'll throw't into the creek
And, mutually participate, did minister
Where you'll be loath to be: besides you know
Is notwithstanding up. Good morrow, Antony.
To look upon him, till the diminution
To the bottom of the worst. Let Helen go:
Enter EROS with armour
Forbiddenly.
As low as she would wish it.
ANTONY, OCTAVIUS, and LEPIDUS, seated at a table
Sir Eglamour, a thousand times good morrow.
Where in that nest of spicery they shall breed
shall come over it, for, in most comely truth, thou
Stand.
that, and for their bareness, I am sure they never
Face not me: thou hast braved many men, brave not
Enter a Priest
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
Tire on the flesh of me and of my son!
Are those that often have 'gainst Pompey fought:
The middle of humanity thou never knewest, but the
Peter Quince,--
Which, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,
And know us by these colours for thy foes,
thrive long under her? There's a quart d'ecu for
Or shall we think the subtle-witted French
Their armours, that march'd hence so silver-bright,
And you, Achilles, let these threats alone,
Farewell, good Strato.
Most barbarous, most degenerate! have you madded.
Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememberest
Fie, no, do not believe it, he cannot want for money.
Seeing the body of CLOTEN
Since you are dear bought, I will love you dear.
The very tyranny and rage of his.
As the recomforted through the gates. Why, hark you!
speak it to you, I think the king is but a man, as I
SCENE IV. Antium. Before Aufidius's house.
Ay, so he says.
Thou'rt mad to say it:
The treason that my haste forbids me show.
Will you walk, sir?
It is, indeed: if you will have it in showing, you
And take down the interest into their
at home that will not
That thus can make him bite the law by the nose,
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
To see great Hector in his weeds of peace,
Wounds will I lend the French instead of eyes,
one, sir, in this interlude, one Sir Topas, sir, but
For she will score your fault upon my pate.
'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands:
And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
Should house him safe is wreck'd and split,
Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
A foe to the public weal: obey, I charge thee,
justices of peace, to call poor men before them
Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower,
By heaven, you do me wrong.
O, that I could but call these dead to life!
Your legs are young, I'll tread these flats. Consider,
Go thou before, be our ambassador:
And thither will I straight to visit him:
With twenty watchful, weary, tedious nights:
As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.
all. Wither, garden, and be henceforth a
To accuse myself--I hate you, which I had rather
What is this
If you'll sit down,
with a new wound in your thigh, come you along with me.
To win the Moor--were't to renounce his baptism,
And may: but, how? how satisfied, my lord?
Already at a point, was setting forth.
to stay behind her. She is at the court, and no
You shall have your desires with interest
To him that made him proud, the pope.
At the next word: no more of 'worthy lord!'
What trumpet is that same?
Enter an Egyptian
The messengers from our sister and the king.
You are welcome, gentlemen! come, musicians, play.
Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my
To try her gracious fortune with Lord Angelo
I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
safety: you have been a great thief by sea.
Do not infest your mind with beating on
O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear:
SCENE VI. Forres. The palace.
For I must tell you friendly in your ear,
In me to lose.
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess
me out contracted bachelors, such as had been asked
The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace.
That he did stay?
But let me to my fortune and the caskets.
be a list of an English kersey as be piled, as thou
That wildly grows in them, but yields a crop
They say, poor gentleman, he's much distract.
both your houses! 'Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a
What, think you then the king shall be deposed?
Of capital treason 'gainst the king and crown,
Opens the tomb
I go.
Shall pass between us: ere long you are like to hear,
They would but stink, and putrefy the air.
Exit
And their most reverend heads dash'd to the walls,
I'll give you a verse to this note that I made
They brought one Pinch, a hungry lean-faced villain,
Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there.
Will it give place to flexure and low bending?
We yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy.
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
Nor cheer of mind, that I was wont to have.
I pray thee, over-name them, and as thou namest
Though I could wish
If he be less, he's nothing, but he's more,
I will fetch you a tooth-picker now from the
Nor fortune made such havoc of my means,
My lord, I say! Othello!
Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE
Lucina lent not me her aid,
You know how apt our love was to accord
It shall be so.
Why, then, thy husband's lands I freely give thee.
On greatness' favour dream as I have done,
Nor could the noble Mortimer
To pardon Mutius and to bury him.
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
Strike at the heaven with your staves as lift them
then she ruminates, then she devises, and what they
That now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me
Enter DUKE ORSINO, CURIO, and Attendants
For I can smooth and fill his aged ear
Enter, to his tent, KING RICHARD III, NORFOLK, RATCLIFF, CATESBY, and others
Go, look after.
O, 'tis too true.
Under my poor instructions yet must suffer
is stronger than Hercules: he will lie, sir, with
easy as a cannon will shoot point-blank twelve
I am most unhappy in the loss of it.
I am a man again. Pray you, sit still.
And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand,
motions. Shall I lose my parson, my priest, my Sir
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
As this Gonzalo, I myself could make
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
But that, till further trial in those charges
this I am not certain.
Enter APEMANTUS
Achilles, Ajax, who wears his wit in his belly and
That dreamers often lie.
To the smothering of the sense--how far it is
Ere a fortnight make me elder,
Ah, my young princes! ah, my tender babes!
The royal banner, and all quality,
an addle egg.
And dreadful objects so familiar
The word, 'Lux tua vita mihi.'
Hector was gone, but Helen was not up.
knowing, to a stranger of his quality.
The kings that have revolted, and the soldier
These banish'd men that I have kept withal
And pardon'd the deceiver, dwell
make you dance. 'Zounds, consort!
gavest me,'twas a pennyworth, wast't not?
Thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue, not
Ah, my sweet Moor, sweeter to me than life!
Will you vouchsafe with me to change a word?
Faith, we hear fearful news.
Madam!
Say that the emperor requests a parley
If I loved many words, lord, I should tell you
was hurt under your arm.
RICHARD
Enter an old Widow of Florence, DIANA, VIOLENTA, and MARIANA, with other Citizens
But yet,--poor Claudio! There is no remedy.
With hands as pale as milk,
We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son,
Of that fell poison which assaileth him.
And never seen thee, never borne thee son,
Of this most pompous marriage-feast.
Are they that I would have thee deal upon:
How fares my brother? why is he so sad?
The weight we must convey with's will permit,
Turn from me, then, that noble countenance,
His master's son, as worshipful as he terms it,
Give me a taper! call up all my people!
But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
I mean for your particular,--you had not
What is more cordial. Nay, I prethee, take it,
Her silence flouts me, and I'll be revenged.
Yet you are curb'd from that enlargement by
Think upon me! hang 'em!
Their form confounded makes most form in mirth,
AEneas, call my brother Troilus to me,
more the pity that some honest neighbours will not
Re-enter BIONDELLO
and scatter'd,
Exeunt
To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight,
That, upon knowledge of my parentage,
And then 'twill end.
Buy thou the cottage, pasture and the flock,
O, know'st thou not his looks are my soul's food?
Where meeting with an old religious man,
Exeunt
At board he fed not for my urging it,
Let that one article rank with the rest,
and pulls me: ha, ha, ha!
estimation.'
The remedy then born--discover to me
'Tis not so sweet now as it was before.
Till I have told this slander of his blood,
But he loves Caesar best, yet he loves Antony:
write and read.
And kill me too.
Come not within these doors, within this roof
And hum at good Cominius, much unhearts me.
I do bite my thumb, sir.
From these that my poor company detest:
Or any creeping venom'd thing that lives!
whom I am now in ward, evermore in subjection.
I do beseech you,
Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste:
Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love,
Examine other beauties.
Beheaded publicly for his offence.
My subjects for a pair of carved saints
Queen Hecuba and Helen.
I did, with his contract with Lady Lucy,
all the care I had, I saw well chosen, ridden, and
And glow with shame of your proceedings, Hubert:
Were I but where 'tis spoken.
We doubt it nothing.
Good for their meat, and safer for their lives.
La fin couronne les oeuvres.
O sir, you are not right: have you not known
Troth, and I have a bag of money here troubles me:
These differences shall all rest under gage
Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse
Tell thy story,
Cold statues of the youth, and, in a word,
Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
Go, Sir Andrew: scout me for him at the corner the
And he shall spend mine honour with his shame,
Which most gibingly, ungravely, he did fashion
To have thee crown'd withal.
When such strings jar, what hope of harmony?
Or some about him near, have, out of malice
yet, when they stoop, they stoop with the like
Richer than all his tribe, of one whose subdued eyes,
Ay, sooth, so humbled
To the choleric fisting of every rogue
Cousin, farewell: what presence must not know,
A sister! you are she.
Four fixed, and the fifth did whirl about
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes,
This Cloten was a fool, an empty purse,
May this be so?
This weighty business will not brook delay:
O noble weakness!
I pray you, good Bassanio, let me know it,
In mangled forms. O that I were a fool!
Accursed the offspring of so foul a fiend!
Have done me shame: brave soldier, pardon me,
Your well defended honour, you must pardon
The star is fall'n.
Do not stand upon't.
Darkness and devils!
May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune
Happy, indeed, as we have spent the day.
her their boots.
And, for our father's sake and mother's care,
My very worthy cousin, fairly met!
pedlar, by education a cardmaker, by transmutation a
Because in quarrel of the house of York
Let's make the best of it.
Since men take women's gifts for impudence.
Which in his death were perfect.
That for your highness' good I ever labour'd
How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she
If that the earth could teem with woman's tears,
An't had been a green hair, I should have laughed
It cannot be thus long, the sides of nature
And bid the main flood bate his usual height,
There's not a minute of our lives should stretch
Your vows to her and me, put in two scales,
Marry, this is miching mallecho, it means mischief.
ACT I
My father had a daughter loved a man,
Who dream'd, who thought of such a thing?'
Heaven knows how dearly. My next poor petition
Is it a custom?
No son of mine succeeding. If 't be so,
Here in the streets, desperate of shame and state,
We set the axe to thy usurping root,
How now, lady!
And dogged York, that reaches at the moon,
O woman, if it were not for one trifling respect, I
fellow partner.
sight she uses thee kindly: but thou liest in thy
That he misconstrues all that you have done.
But flies an eagle flight, bold and forth on,
Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
Gloucester, York, Buckingham, Somerset,
But in my garments.
I am most glad
I have been consul, and can show for Rome
has got that same scurvy doting foolish young knave's
Then say at once if I maintain'd the truth,
Look, what will serve is fit: 'tis once, thou lovest,
Now, by my father's badge, old Nevil's crest,
That you are welcome?
snorting like a horse.
But little vantage shall I reap thereby,
Exit GARDINER
then thy manners must be wicked, and wickedness is
O, think my son to be as dear to me!
Which, hatch'd, would, as his kind, grow mischievous,
Than when these fellows ran about the streets,
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Let that suffice. I have trusted thee, Camillo,
Teeth hadst thou in thy head when thou wast born,
What, my lord?
of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
against a post when he was drunk. They will steal
Let my presumption not provoke thy wrath,
To you, my lord, I come, what lord you will,
Ay, but her forehead's low, and mine's as high.
Thou sing'st sweet music. Hark, come hither, Tyrrel
Like a fair house built on another man's ground, so
a merry knight. Will you go, An-heires?
It rain'd down fortune showering on your head,
And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness,
And not provoked by any suitor else,
I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the
The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope,
What made me love thee? let that persuade thee
Exeunt
and let your flesh and blood obey it.
Exit RUGBY
Stay not, all's in vain.
Saucy and overbold? How did you dare
The fire seven times tried this:
E'en at hand, alighted by this, and therefore be
Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the king
Enter PRINCE, with Attendants
Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch.
From John of Gaunt doth bring his pedigree,
Going
thou thimble,
As thou'lt desire, and then myself, I chiefly,
A woman's will, a canker'd grandam's will!
To do you salutation from his master.
And, for my sake, stay here with Antony:
You were a moveable.
Alas, poor chin! many a wart is richer.
The royal captain of this ruin'd band
So could I, faith, boy, to have the next wish after,
Sir, I would advise you to shift a shirt, the
Thy words are but as thoughts, therefore, be bold.
You shall find of the king a husband, madam, you,
And never trouble Peter for the matter.
And let me see thee in thy woman's weeds.
Why, Phaeton,--for thou art Merops' son,--
You are there followed by a faithful shepherd,
It is most true, true, I have married her:
It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong.
Converses apart with FERDINAND, and delivers him a paper
Alas, and woe!
Return thee therefore with a flood of tears,
homely foolery already. I know, sir, we weary you.
O, here it is. Uncle, I must come forth.
They please us well. Lord marquess, kneel down:
That, he awaking when the other do,
More than, I fear, you are provided for.
Friend and companion in the front of war,
To his own portion! and what expense by the hour
All o'erjoy'd,
O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt? See,
Enter two Gentlemen, meeting
gentlemen: they speak English?
Now, by Apollo,--
They'll mar my counterfeiting.
Excusez-moi, Alice, ecoutez: de hand, de fingres,
To come at traitors' calls and do them grace.
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
Nor thou, nor he, are any sons of mine,
Disparage not the faith thou dost not know,
These are the limbs o' the plot: no more, I hope.
Enter BIANCA
So will I, Signior Gremio: but a word, I pray.
My remedy is then, to pluck it out.
You must not leave me yet: I must to bed,
Without addition or diminishing,
Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace to-night:
As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.
Thou art up-roused by some distemperature,
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother
Sweet majesty, vouchsafe me,--
Within their chiefest temple I'll erect
You all did love him once, not without cause:
Princes in this should live like gods above,
I am, therefore come down, and welcome me.
Be playfellows to keep you company!
She never knew harm-doing: O, now, after
I speak no treason.
This fellow could not drown. Now, blasphemy,
Do rush upon us as their hungry prey.
Great Albion's queen in former golden days:
Now kiss, embrace, contend, do what you will.
customary gown.
I am prepared: here is my keen-edged sword,
Enter GOWER
Go, Gratiano, run and overtake him,
Nor faint in the pursuit.
I do wander everywhere,
During this song they pinch FALSTAFF. DOCTOR CAIUS  comes one way, and steals away a boy in green,  SLENDER another way, and takes off a boy in white,  and FENTON comes and steals away ANN PAGE.  A noise of hunting is heard within. All the  Fairies run away. FALSTAFF pulls off his buck's head, and rises
This is, sir, a doubt
'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin, tis time you were
Knowest thou Gower?
If he should still malignantly remain
For Henry, son unto a conqueror,
Through Alexandria make a jolly march,
So would not I, for your own sake, for I have many
Thou quiet soul, sleep thou a quiet sleep
We are blessed in the change.
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
If I dream not, thou art AEmilia:
I can, my liege.
Or like a star disorb'd? Nay, if we talk of reason,
Why, such and such, and the contents o' the story.
robin-redbreast, to walk alone, like one that had
To France, sweet Suffolk: let me hear from thee,
I, as Aeneas, our great ancestor,
That God, the law, my honour and her love,
But I would have the soil of her fair rape
Through the forest have I gone.
thoughts beget hot deeds, and hot deeds is love.
Content with Hermia! No, I do repent
But Warwick's king is Edward's prisoner:
Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here, tarry for the
Nor a musician, as I seem to be,
swashers. I am boy to them all three: but all they
That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace,
Truly, madam, he holds Belzebub at the staves's end as
To throw down Hector than Polyxena:
hotly call'd for,
What woman-post is this? hath she no husband
Lucentio, 'hic est,' son unto Vincentio of Pisa,
Not a whit, i' faith, I lack some of thy instinct.
That satiate yet unsatisfied desire, that tub
Shall we be thus afflicted in his wreaks,
The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud,
Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour
Yes.
What's the matter now?
that had received so much shame, you might begin an
So long that nineteen zodiacs have gone round
No, no, I am but shadow of myself:
Against them both my true joints bended be.
Strew good luck, ouphes, on every sacred room:
But yet, before we go, let's not forget
The cruel father and his traitorous sons,
Exit
I almost die for food, and let me have it.
They wound my thoughts worse than sword my flesh:
But what likelihood is in that?
You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful:
You here at Milford-Haven with your ships:
This is the monkey's own giving out: she is
Enter three FISHERMEN
shall get it with running. Sa, sa, sa, sa.
I stumbled when I saw: full oft 'tis seen,
My mother greets me kindly, is she well?
may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you
A pretty peat! it is best
If you will patiently dance in our round
What else, man? The stuff we have, a strong wind
tunes, let a cup of sack be my poison: when a jest
The best and soundest of his time hath been but
Exeunt
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
Each bound it chafes. What have you there?
For hardy and undoubted champions,
There yours, Lord Scroop of Masham, and, sir knight,
walk. The time when. About the sixth hour, when
Of the old, feeble and day-wearied sun,
The princess comes to hunt here in the park,
Madam, you'll find it so. You wrong your virtues
Exeunt Lords
A most miraculous work in this good king,
I am sorry that I am deceived in him.
All our abilities, gifts, natures, shapes,
Is death mis-term'd: calling death banishment,
She says I am not fair, that I lack manners,
Excellently.
Although against her will, as it appears
I'll make the motion: stand here, make a good show
Thy Clarence he is dead that kill'd my Edward,
should sing.
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Be assured you may.
And, with my best endeavours in your absence,
The Tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king.
My lord,
Who will believe thee, Isabel?
Speak, hands for me!
What say ye, countrymen? will ye relent,
Balk'd in their own blood did Sir Walter see
Entreat her not the worse in that I pray
'They met me in the day of success: and I have
Not meaning to partake with me in danger,
Mocks married men, for thus sings he, 	Cuckoo,
This is good news:
O sweet England!
Hast thou not kiss'd thy hand and held my stirrup?
Why then, 'tis good to be a post.
Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care,
Now, go thy ways, thou hast tamed a curst shrew.
And burn him with their tapers.
Sweet Kate, embrace her for her beauty's sake.
Why not by the hand, sir? How have I offended?
Are you not Pericles? Like him you spake,
No grace? no womanhood? Ah, beastly creature!
It was a lover and his lass,
God make your majesty joyful as you have been!
wonderful! and yet again wonderful, and after that,
With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks,
The present money to discharge the Jew,
And make thy fortunes proud: the blow thou hadst
good a commander with so slight, so drunken, and so
I mean, my lords, those powers that the queen
Builds in the weather on the outward wall,
And neither man nor master would take aught
Enter ISABELLA
Enter DENNY
forthwith: dismiss your attendant there: look it be done.
In such a loathed manner,
Who ever saw the like? what men have I!
And hangs on Dian's temple: dear Valeria!
The icy precepts of respect, but follow'd
Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made,
and where it would not, I have used my credit.
Is weaker than the wine, and mine own tongue
To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
But I will never be a truant, love,
None that I know will be, much that I fear may chance.
Begun to tell me what I am, but stopp'd
What stay had we but Clarence? and he's gone.
Who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet strongly loves!
You were best to go to bed and dream again,
Not virtuously on his own part beheld,
Let loose on me the justice of the state
That were some love but little policy.
So, here comes a brace.
evident to any formal capacity, there is no
she is virtuous.
That task our thoughts, concerning us and France.
Here many sink, yet those which see them fall
displeasure.
One of these two must be necessities,
The Roman ladies bring not comfort home,
How modest in exception, and withal
Take this of me, Kate of my consolation,
You, my lords,
Exit GRUMIO
Do you think so?
I, having been acquainted with the smell before,
Gentlemen,
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits
My deeds upon my head! I crave the law,
Receive the sentence of the law for sins
But, ass, I'll take that burthen from your back,
Yet,--
Let me not stay a jot for dinner, go get it ready.
I must be here confined by you,
Give me now leave to leave thee.
Unto the secret nameless friend of yours,
The thing I am, by seeming otherwise.
Enter THALIARD
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly, the Queen  embracing him, and he her. She kneels, and makes  show of protestation unto him. He takes her up,  and declines his head upon her neck: lays him down  upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep,  leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his  crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's  ears, and exit. The Queen returns, finds the King  dead, and makes passionate action. The Poisoner,  with some two or three Mutes, comes in again,  seeming to lament with her. The dead body is  carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with  gifts: she seems loath and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts his love
Thy hopeful service perish too: good Cromwell,
Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate.
So that my lord your son were not my brother,--
whilst he railed at me. 'Sfoot, I'll learn to
Yet do thy cheeks look red as Titan's face
Hold, take my ring.
Might equal yours, if both were justly weigh'd.
Looking on QUEEN ANNE
Well, say, sir.
Uncle, Adieu: O, let the hours be short
Nay, then.
Mine interest and his honour, or have charged him,
That e'er our hearts shall make!
If our betters play at that game, we must not dare
In your distrust.
O think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
you, deliver.
Who is your sister's son, Mark Antony.
him last night.
Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it,
Whom I encounter'd as the battles join'd.
That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
For daws to peck at: I am not what I am.
Exeunt Ambassadors
Yes, marry, have I, what of that?
conscience, now, is it not?
Thanks and good night to the Greeks' general.
If it were so, I might have let alone
Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less,
Justice, most sacred duke, against the abbess!
Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby,
Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee,
He was excellent indeed, madam: the king very
Nurse! What should she do here?
Thither I must, although against my will,
But for the end it works to. Come, our stomachs
I will come to your worship to-morrow morning.
Of moving accidents by flood and field
He presently, as greatness knows itself,
if you mean to save yourself from whipping, leap me
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
O, what a world is this, when what is comely
Justice with favour have I always done,
Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,
That goddess blind,
Enter PERICLES, CLEON, DIONYZA, and LYCHORIDA with MARINA in her arms
Ay, 'tis strong, and it does indifferent well in a
better man than thee.
Without her love, for her employ them all,
'Tis not unknown to thee that I have sought
And have is have, however men do catch:
But mine is made the prologue to their play,
And thinks he that the chirping of a wren,
As gifts to Desdemona,
Truly, an obedient lady:
French knight that cowers i' the hams?
worm-eaten nut.
Shall I tell you a thing?
Twice to your visor, and half once to you.
And he whose wife is most obedient
Untutor'd lad, thou art too malapert.
Which with the heart there cools and ne'er returneth
Taste of your wine and see what cates you have,
Daughter to Charlemain, who was the son
While I was speaking, oft was fasten'd to't.
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
Athens is become a forest of beasts.
man and his son aboard the prince: told him I heard
Of all the fair resort of gentlemen
none, remember thy friends, get thee a good husband,
Ay, Hamlet.
monster. A most scurvy monster! I could find in my
Where should they be set else? he were a brave
Enter ABHORSON
This by Calpurnia's dream is signified.
And more and richer, when he strains that lady:
Sennet. Exeunt all except BRUTUS and CASSIUS
To entreat your grace but in a small request,
Last night, I hear, they lay at Northampton,
Villain, thou shalt fast for thy offences ere thou
They laughed not so much at the hair as at his pretty answer.
Into the blind cave of eternal night.
With him his bondman, all as mad as he--
this change of thoughts,
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
But cruel are the times, when we are traitors
He is forsworn, if e'er those eyes of yours
Be bold to tell you that I am your son,
I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there:
A father, and a gracious aged man,
And also, I think, thou art not ignorant
To one man's honour, this contagious sickness,
Can make you greater than the Queen of Goths.
O wall, full often hast thou heard my moans,
Not having that, which, having, makes them short.
What should I don this robe, and trouble you?
Which I, the factor for the rest, have done
Exeunt all but BRUTUS
If she sustain him and his hundred knights
Or here or elsewhere to the furthest verge
Good Master Vernon, it is well objected:
Brentford?
almost chide God for making you that countenance you
He doth rely on none,
But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy,
Enter ROMEO, MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, with five or six Maskers, Torch-bearers, and others
Welcome, how agreed?
I know my price, I am worth no worse a place:
Enter Chancellor, places himself at the upper end  of the table on the left hand, a seat being left  void above him, as for CRANMER's seat. SUFFOLK,  NORFOLK, SURREY, Chamberlain, GARDINER, seat  themselves in order on each side. CROMWELL at lower end, as secretary. Keeper at the door
signify this to his doctor, for, for me to put him
Of the unguarded hearts, heavens, how they wound!
It plucks out brains and all: but my Muse labours,
And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow,
If aught within that little seeming substance,
Nor I, my lord, in faith.
losing the flood, lose thy voyage, and, in losing
This discord's ground, the music would not please.
I do suspect I have done some offence
Let us be keen, and rather cut a little,
To come and sport: her peacocks fly amain:
I perceive you delight not in music.
I must to him too,
As guilty of Duke Humphrey's timeless death.
He cannot live, I hope, and must not die
When this same lusty gentleman was got.
that goes of his having.
Build his statue to make him glorious:
'Tis thou and those that have dishonour'd me.
Of such contents as you will wonder at,
You shall not be
That like the stately Phoebe 'mongst her nymphs
ACT IV
By staying there so long till all were lost.
unskilful singer, he kept not time.
Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help,
To o'erthrow law and in one self-born hour
And how was that ta'en up?
Away with that audacious lady! Antigonus,
That I am clear from this misdeed of Edward's,
all flesh and blood are, and, indeed, I do marry
That with his name the mothers still their babes?
By whom, AEneas?
The mutual conference that my mind hath had,
Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear,
That which is now a horse, even with a thought
Well, what remedy? Fenton, heaven give thee joy!
As falcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil
That slightly shakes his parting guest by the hand,
And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
backward: I am sure he had more hair of his tail
[Aside]  Done like a Frenchman: turn, and turn again!
For a more blustrous birth had never babe:
Desires this ring, appoints him an encounter,
kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her:
For now sits Expectation in the air,
Those mothers who, to nousle up their babes,
Give me the paper, let me read the same,
park with the rational hind Costard: she deserves well.
The petty wrens of Tarsus will fly hence,
With more of thine: this love that thou hast shown
For I myself am not so well provided
Thou map of woe, that thus dost talk in signs!
Exit
Was grown into a hoop? hast thou forgot her?
show much like to madness: pray heaven his wisdom be
for credit of the 'prentices.
And kiss me, Kate, we will be married o'Sunday.
Exeunt KING LEAR, GLOUCESTER, KENT, and Fool
came her like in Mytilene.
out more apparel than the man. But art not thou
And that thou thought'st thy griefs might equal mine,
Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting,
That art not what thou'rt sure of! Get thee hence:
And vanish'd from our sight.
Pardon, master,
feigning, and lovers are given to poetry, and what
This Tunis, sir, was Carthage.
pains to work her to your manage. Come, we will
I have congied with the duke, done my adieu with his
I could not speak with Dromio since at first
that honour of hers which you imagine so reserved.
Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour
Must be the mistress to this theoric:
Why, then resolve me whether you will or no.
That welcome wrongs, unto bad causes swear
Must yield to such inevitable shame
And let the subject see, to make them know
And with our swords, upon a pile of wood,
Madam, madam!
frailty. You confess then, you picked my pocket?
He has the stamp of Marcius, and I have
Exeunt all except the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, the Abbot of Westminster, and DUKE OF AUMERLE
Perhaps she cull'd it from among the rest.
That doth renew swifter than blood decays!
Till I shall see you in your soldier's dress,
I'll have a starling shall be taught to speak
Look, here is writ 'kind Julia.' Unkind Julia!
My lord, this is impiety in you:
My haste made me unmannerly. There is staying
'Tis mightiest in the mightiest: it becomes
Exit
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
the adoption of abominable terms, and by him that
Drum afar off
Thy hope ends here!
Thyself and office deftly show!
Made me put this main secret in the packet
to leave the dam.
Abate thy valour in the acting it.
He'll make his cap co-equal with the crown.'
white-bearded fellow speaks it: knavery cannot,
Is't so saucy?
And not a tinker nor Christophero Sly.
Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours,
Then feeling what small things are boisterous there,
For being ignorant to whom it goes
You men of Angiers, and my loving subjects--
Exit
For in a minute there are many days:
Reply not in how many fathoms deep
Fall down before him, like the mower's swath:
Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore.
So sure as this beard's grey,
To visit the next room, I'll presently
Bring me a father that so loved his child,
testimony and witness, and will avouchment, that
And if you cannot, best you stop your ears.
Young gentlemen would be as sad as night,
To overbulk us all.
Exeunt
For if I do, I'll mar the young clerk's pen.
Exit MARCIUS
The praised of the king, who, so ennobled,
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
SCENE IV. Another part of the forest.
Carries no favour in't but Bertram's.
Another ring, that what in time proceeds
Fie, fie, how franticly I square my talk,
The spirit of deep prophecy she hath,
To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen,
Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
The king was slily finger'd from the deck!
Briefly, I dwell by the Capitol.
A graceful gentleman, against whose person,
I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail.
This sudden mischief never could have fall'n.
To fight with Glendower and his complices:
to be proud of thy bondage. I have a desire to hold
I will make haste: but, till I come again,
Because that John hath made his peace with Rome?
dumb, yet are they much too light for the bore of
though they be long ere they are wooed, they are
Comfort forswear me! Unkindness may do much,
Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,
Of what we blame him for.
That malice bears down truth. And I beseech you,
Yes, indeed: thou wouldst make a good fool.
Great is the rumor of this dreadful knight,
You say you are a better soldier:
All's well that ends well, still the fine's the crown,
Thou camest here to complain.
me an officer, bespeak him a fortnight before. I
And laid good 'scuse upon your ecstasy,
To have a look of such a worthy mistress.
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, EXETER, GLOUCESTER,  WARWICK, SOMERSET, and SUFFOLK, the BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, RICHARD PLANTAGENET, and others.  GLOUCESTER offers to put up a bill, BISHOP OF WINCHESTER snatches it, and tears it
Thus smiling, as some fly hid tickled slumber,
With drunken spilth of wine, when every room
this husband, which, you say, must charge his horns
You should find better dealing. What's to do?
De nails, de arm, de ilbow.
true English, I love thee, Kate: by which honour I
To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.
The lady that I sent for. Welcome, fair one!
Princes have but their tides for their glories,
He cuts their throats
O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see
This token serveth for a flag of truce
They did, Fluellen.
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
What dost thou profess? what wouldst thou with us?
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
Forget your oath to us at Doncaster,
But I believe, although I seem so loath,
Still serve him with my life. My dearest master!
High emperor, upon my feeble knee
From men of royal siege, and my demerits
see wonders.
Lay with you in your coffer: which are now
For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt,
Up in my heart, which I have given already,
Who hath abused me, as he knows himself,
Enter ROMEO
Enter BIONDELLO
And that in Tarsus was not best
What shall I say more than I have inferr'd?
Loved me above the measure of a father,
Yet know, my master, God omnipotent,
That I am ready to distrust mine eyes
Thurio borrows his wit from your ladyship's looks,
But with good will. To show our simple skill,
Is not to walk in.
doth my simple feature content you?
How dearly they do't! 'Tis her breathing that
The Governor and some Citizens on the walls, the English forces below. Enter KING HENRY and his train
Let's purge this choler without letting blood:
he cannot study, and the other lives merrily because
Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me
Very well: you being then, if you be remembered,
I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
your honour.
As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds,
And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
Almost each pang a death.
If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly:
If you would seek us,
The precedent was full as long a-doing:
Fiery? what quality? Why, Gloucester, Gloucester,
So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart,
Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily,
For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine
The people will accept whom he admits.
To bar my master's heirs in true descent,
Enter ANGELO and ESCALUS
These strong Egyptian fetters I must break,
Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
There is no more such masters: I may wander
The immortal gods that hear you,--spare your oaths,
From heaven! alas, sir, I never came there     God
Rebuke and dread correction wait on us
is a little variations.
Knowing she will not lose her wonted greatness,
And of the loyal service of his son,
exceeding heavy.
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill,
Ay, and make't manifest where she has lived,
Is Clarence dead? the order was reversed.
God and our good cause fight upon our side,
As living here and you no use of him.
Be not familiar with her.
But here's a vengeful sword, rusted with ease,
The husbandry and manage of my house
On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
To the Capitol, come:
Exeunt
Let not this wasp outlive, us both to sting.
Clock striketh
another, to make me frankly despise myself.
That could control the moon, make flows and ebbs,
What is become of her.
For further satisfying, under her breast--
Merely awry: when he did love his country,
Courteous destroyers, affable wolves, meek bears,
Marry, and shall.
transcends.
And there lacks work, anon he's there afoot,
Still betters what is done. When you speak, sweet.
But never saw before, of whom I have
Which thou didst force from Talbot, my brave boy:'
him. He was first smoked by the old lord Lafeu:
Though more to know could not be more to trust,
For I will be thy beadsman, Valentine.
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE disguised, with four Soldiers with sacks upon their backs
Of roaring terrors, for the effect of judgment
Say 'a day,' without the 'ever.' No, no, Orlando,
And she to him, to stay him not too long,
My prayers on the adverse party fight,
For ever may my knees grow to the earth,
Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true.
What title hast thou, traitor, to the crown?
Ay, to the leavening, but here's yet in the word
Exit
Peace be with you, sir.
This is too much,
Depose him in the justice of his cause.
Now, brother of Clarence, how like you our choice,
Then love me, Rosalind.
To rest awhile, some half an hour or so,
grant? and will you persever to enjoy her?
Je te prie, m'enseignez: il faut que j'apprenne a
have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you
Excellent good, i' faith.
Cure this great breach in his abused nature!
And bids you, in the bowels of the Lord,
As soft as dove's down and as white as it,
A grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find.
But get thee gone: I shall be there before thee.
sick health!
are old men: tell me one thing that I shall ask you.
None but a holy hermit and her maid.
That my disports corrupt and taint my business,
What dogs are these! Where is the rascal cook?
And plague injustice with the pains of hell.
Most truly limn'd and living in your face,
The head of a bodkin.
Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about
And these breed honour: that is honour's scorn,
to me, for indeed three such antics do not amount to
questions in his accidence.
And sell the mighty space of our large honours
How hardly I was drawn into this war,
The petty difference, we yet not know.
Most reverend Nestor, I am glad to clasp thee.
God rest you merry, sir.
Some surety for a safe return again,
Of Phoebus' burning kisses: such a pother
My heart as great, my reason haply more,
heart to beat him,--
I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
be ruled by him.
Of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war.
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
O, would I were to die with Salisbury!
A form of strangeness as we pass along:
Masters, I am to discourse wonders: but ask me not
Come forth.
The Roman emperor greets you all by me,
fowl or a hurt wild-duck. I pressed me none but such
Which quired with my drum, into a pipe
How does your lady? and how thrives your love?
Exit Francis
Is your man secret? Did you ne'er hear say,
If Timon stay at home. You three serve three usurers?
In acclamations hyperbolical,
Aside
Remit thy other forfeits. Take him to prison,
Hark, hark, my lord! what shouts are these?
They have not been commanded, mighty sovereign:
To face the garment of rebellion
Say, what's thy name?
The trick of's frown, his forehead, nay, the valley,
Never did captive with a freer heart
Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands:
Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,
Of strong prevailment in unharden'd youth:
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
Flock to their aid, and still their power increaseth.
Content, and the argument shall be thy running away.
besides, possessed with the glanders and like to mose
Thou art inclined to sleep, 'tis a good dulness,
His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
And so I pray you all to think yourselves.
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
Music ceases
Though now this grained face of mine be hid
Exeunt LUCILIUS and Old Athenian
SCENE II. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Yea, Troilus? O, well fought, my youngest brother!
Goes into the trunk. The scene closes
Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you:
his meat without grudging: and how you may be
and nod at every man.
The world's large spaces cannot parallel.
Farewell, my lord: good wishes, praise and prayers
I kindle the boy thither, which now I'll go about.
My heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
When Caesar and your brother were at blows,
The sun to course two hundred compasses,
Mine arms about that body, where against
That love the fundamental part of state
With stronger blood, we should have answer'd heaven
A sickness caught of me, and yet I well!
Fall on their heads like dew! for they are worthy
That time best fits the work we have in hand.
O, let my lady apprehend no fear: in all Cupid's
And not be Richard that hath done all this.
The offer of an hundred thousand crowns
No, for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that
By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit:
Do right unto this princely Duke of York,
Ha, ha!
Die, die, Lavinia, and thy shame with thee,
And so, though yours, not yours. Prove it so,
Beseeching God and you to pardon me.
Tucket within
Well, heaven send Anne Page no worse fortune! Tell
SCENE III. The frontiers of Mantua. The forest.
she's a fair lady: I do spy some marks of love in
That, in regard King Henry gives consent,
The hand-fast to her lord. I have given him that
Nor dignifies an impure thought with breath,
Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks,
Than to take in a town with gentle words,
welcome. I had rather be a beggar's dog than Apemantus.
And, like a dew-drop from the lion's mane,
The world's great snare uncaught?
[Aside]  Ah, sweet Anne Page!
A prophet I, madam, and I speak the truth the next
Delivered up again with peaceful words?
You bloody Neroes, ripping up the womb
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
Thou gavest thine ears like tapsters that bid welcome
enforced, for which he suffered death.
[To OTHELLO]  What, in your own part, can you say to this?
Exit
Holds in his blood such swoln and hot discourse
The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
Send to me in the morning and I'll send it:
By sea and land I'll fight: or I will live,
Than spotted livers in the sacrifice.
unbolted villain into mortar, and daub the wall of
I knew 'twould be a bald conclusion:
Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free.
In the wars, and that may you be bold to say in your foolery.
You put me off with limber vows, but I,
When I inform'd him, then he call'd me sot,
How's that?
By mingling them with us, the honour'd number,
I stagger in:--but this new governor
To visit her poor castle where she lies,
If I be traitor or unjustly fight!
And have no other reason for this wrong
Or, if we did derive it from our friends,
Would the nobility lay aside their ruth,
What could the belly answer?
O, were mine eyeballs into bullets turn'd,
Enter WARWICK, CLARENCE, OXFORD, SOMERSET, and French soldiers, silent all
Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
And 'twixt them rushes, underneath whose arm
O my lord,
with thee. Go thy ways: let my horses be well
CRANMER enters and approaches the council-table
And Trinculo is reeling ripe: where should they
Is in thyself rebellion to thyself,
Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds:
And, for my heart disdained that my tongue
But count the world a stranger for thy sake.
I will do so: till then, think of the world.
Ay, and a subtle, as he most learnedly delivered.
We'll chide this Dauphin at his father's door.
Poor breathing orators of miseries!
Let your indulgence set me free.
Such duty to the drunkard let him do
Out, treacherous villain!
His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
Each syllable that breath made up between them.
Detract so much from that prerogative,
In such a presence here to plead my thoughts,
Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form,
To heave the traitor Somerset from hence,
You all did see that on the Lupercal
Verily!
him. It is now high suppertime, and the night grows
Farewell!
And feast the army, we have store to do't,
speak with him till after dinner.
What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
So near the emperor's palace dare you draw,
Father, tear the crown from the usurper's head.
What's that to thee?
Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love:
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
My twelve months are expired, and Tyrus stands
To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
Presenting me a schedule! I will read it.
That womanhood denies my tongue to tell:
Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches, for
I had forgot myself, am I not king?
Define, define, well-educated infant.
Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
Even in a minute: so full of shapes is fancy
By my troth, yes, I count it but time lost to hear
But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
Upon my head?
Good heart, at what?
Was as another nature, dumb, outwent her,
In that it scorns to bear another hue,
That I am desperate of obtaining her.
The bodies of GONERIL and REGAN are brought in
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
Low march within
Thou ever strong upon the stronger side!
Which if you shall refuse, when I am dead,
Thy palm some moment keeps, but now mine eyes,
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
Death is the fairest cover for her shame
Where is she, sir? How
His conquering banner shook from Syria
most omnipotent villain that ever cried 'Stand' to
tanner of Wingham,--
Guarded with grandsires, babies and old women,
what a wardrobe here is for thee!
To lose so bad employment, in the which
Of prisoners' ransom and of soldiers slain,
It is too little, helping him to all,
It may be so, but yet my inward soul
Nor hear I from my mistress who did promise
Than stands on any shoulder that I see
An honest woman, or not a woman.
My best attires: I am again for Cydnus,
Cannot, is false, and that I dare not, falser:
Go, go, sweet Sir John: Mistress Page and I will
Well, do not then, for since you love me not,
a sorrow than have it.
Royally!
Exit
discretion, I had as lief thou didst break his neck
Murder in heaven?--How!--'Tis gone. Pisanio,
But throw her forth to beasts and birds of prey:
For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather,
By this I shall perceive the commons' mind,
'Fore God, an excellent song.
Where is my other life? mine own is gone,
Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder,
Upon his body that slaughter'd him!
Should not upbraid our course. For all the rest,
And even as willingly at thy feet I leave it
Is this your promise? go to, hold your tongue.
That columbine.
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story,
For going on death's net, whom none resist.
The proudest of them shall well hear of it.
Hath made me publisher of this pretence.
Soft! it smells most sweetly in my sense.
Re-enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, and seconds the  Britons: they rescue CYMBELINE, and exeunt. Then re-enter LUCIUS, and IACHIMO, with IMOGEN
A woman moved is like a fountain troubled,
Let her shine as gloriously
If he be gone, he'll make his grave a bed,
As it on earth hath been thy servant still.
O for a Muse of fire, that would ascend
Is there scarce ask'd for who, and good men's lives
No face is fair that is not full so black.
I never loved my brother in my life.
Is our whole dissembly appeared?
To see fair Padua, nursery of arts,
Such men my friends than enemies. Go on,
If their singing answer your saying, by my faith,
So stood the state when Henry the Sixth
so am I, ha, ha! then there's more sympathy: you
Ability in means and choice of friends,
The untimely emptying of the happy throne
a coal of fire, sometimes plue and sometimes red,
Dumain transform'd! four woodcocks in a dish!
Hal, wilt thou make one?
The tenor of them doth but signify
purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand! This is
Are thou so confident? within what space
But only slaughter'd by the ireful arm
O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune and thy state:
Alack, 'tis he: why, he was met even now
Droop not, adieu. Farewell, my wife, my mother:
Question it, Horatio.
I have, as when the sun doth light a storm,
Thither, gentle mariner.
'When he,' quoth she, 'shall split thy heart with sorrow,
As bird doth sing on bough.
Like to a pair of loving turtle-doves
Your tenants, friends and neighbouring gentlemen.
Made up to the deed, doth push on this proceeding:
reading it he changed almost into another man.
Had I expected thee. How now, my brother!
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
What mean you, sir?
And, in some taste, is Lepidus but so,
Is Claudio thine enemy?
SCENE II. Rome. The house of LEPIDUS.
leur noces, il n'est pas la coutume de France.
Richard hath best deserved of all my sons.
What you have nobly done.
Bolts and shackles!
Making it momentany as a sound,
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
You take my lord, I'll give him my commission
You have put me out of countenance.
Good lady,
Stay not, fly, whilst thou art blest and free:
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
Overdone's own house, for here be many of her old
I thank you, sir: and, pray you, tell me this:
To take the safest occasion by the front
But the worst of me. So, I leave you, sir,
For that my sovereign liege was in my debt
Beheld them, when they lighted, how they clung
To your own person: nay, when I have a suit
Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here, he would
Horns and shout within. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA wake and start up
O monstrous! what reproachful words are these?
should not pass here, no, though it were as virtuous
His arms in this sad knot.
Exit
That none but fools would keep: a breath thou art,
It appears so by his weapons. Keep them asunder:
Stay:
tender juvenal?
Now, by Apollo, king,
O, what, am I
And leave your England, as dead midnight still,
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE, with a basket
The truth of your own seeming, that you may--
Dark as your fortune is, and but disguise
in the next room.
Exeunt
Still met the king? loved him next heaven?
The Lord forbid!
My scutcheon plain declares that I am Alisander,--
Enter LAUNCELOT, with a letter
Exeunt
Alas, thrice-gentle Cassio!
fashion, i' faith. I saw the Duchess of Milan's
Ay, though it look like thee.
O Dardanius!
Thrice famed, beyond all erudition:
particulars of my life.
We did, so please your highness.
Trip, Audrey! trip, Audrey! I attend, I attend.
magician, most profound in his art and yet not
By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear.
I shall have share in this most happy wreck.
Over the glittering helmet of my foe!
He slily stole away and left his men:
To have brought viva voce to his face:
Until you see her die again, for then
Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance:
Not your gaoler, then,
O, that my tongue were in the thunder's mouth!
Till bones and flesh and sinews fall away,
Give him a little earth for charity!'
O sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinned,
But how I caught it, found it, or came by it,
Straining upon the start. The game's afoot:
'twill be his bane, he cannot bear it.
An easy task it is to win our own.
their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother.
Giving it to KATHARINE
[Reads]  'Dian, the count's a fool, and full of gold,'--
If you will not murder me for my love, let me be
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,
Must kings neglect, that private men enjoy!
To search the secret treasons of the world:
To sacred Delphos, to Apollo's temple,
The news is true, my lord, he is descried,
to keep my pack from fasting: they throng who
Villain, thy father was a plasterer,
In this man's place before him?
Come, Kate, I'll have your song too.
You must return and mend it.
You have said, sir. To see this age! A sentence is
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
Sweet lady, entertain him for your servant.
Let us not leave him out.
Hark, Polydore, it sounds! But what occasion
With drinking healths to my niece: I'll drink to
Hath made thy person for the thrower-out
There is a vent of blood and something blown:
This day was view'd in open as his queen,
A very, very--pajock.
For I was train'd up in the English court,
To your own bents dispose you: you'll be found,
Sister, content you in my discontent.
Which shall be either to this gentleman
No more obey the heavens than our courtiers
That she should lock herself from his resort,
Still and anon cheer'd up the heavy time,
Here comes the herald of the French, my liege.
And joy comes well in such a needy time:
didst know how many fathom deep I am in love! But
To whisper. At the which let no man wonder.
O, no more, no more!
Why, would not you?
And I will take up that with 'Give the devil his due.'
To prostitute our past-cure malady
good friend Trinculo.
That this fell fault of my accursed sons,
Exit
Come away, it is almost clear dawn.
Shakes the old beldam earth and topples down
Where is Nan now and her troop of fairies, and the
by the lesser legs: if any be Trinculo's legs,
And point by point the treasons of his master
O my sweet master! O you memory
Come, Hastings, help me to my closet.
Three, they say: but 'tis thought of every one
What hast thou done, unnatural and unkind?
And pale destruction meets thee in the face.
It would be spoke to.
quick, quick, that I may lay my head in thy lap.
'Tis certain there's not a boy left alive, and the
Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance:
counterfeitly, that is, sir, I will counterfeit the
I will not hence and leave my husband here:
We should do when we would, for this 'would' changes
There's not a piece of feather in our host--
Disprove this villain, if thou be'st a man:
putting-on, methinks strangely, for he hath not used it before.
True:
Suffer them now, and they'll o'ergrow the garden
What are we, Apemantus?
If they can brook I bow a knee to man.
I'll leave you, my sweet lady, for a while:
Make us strange stuff.
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet,
Nor can there be that deity in my nature,
Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
O weary night, O long and tedious night,
Now, when the angry trumpet sounds alarum
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
With that which melteth fools, I mean, sweet words,
Such fiery numbers as the prompting eyes
Come, bring away the plaintiffs: by this time our
And by how much she strives to do him good,
Exit
There with fantastic garlands did she come
Thou hast made me giddy
What doth move you to claim your brother's land?
Before you fight the battle, ope this letter.
Is come to lay his weary bones among ye,
cannot abide the old woman of Brentford, he swears
would not: drunk many times a day, if not many days
He's married.
With golden fruit, but dangerous to be touch'd,
And is Aufidius with him? You are they
These should be hours for necessities,
I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his opinion.
And say what thou seest yond.
With fervency drew up.
planted his honours in their eyes, and his actions
Your friends, sir, the hangman. You must be so
Farewell, good Master Oliver: not,--
And at my suit, sweet, pardon what is past.
Here, take my ring:
Than shame to the Romans: and we here deliver,
And in your search spend your adventurous worth,
Too noble for this place.
Exeunt all but PERICLES
If half thy outward graces had been placed
It doth contain a king, King Richard lies
have made to her chastity you shall answer me with
misprised: but it shall not be so long, this
am king of England, I shall command all the good
subject's duty is the king's, but every subject's
Let them puff all about mine ears, present me
And very well appointed, as I thought,
Enter GEORGE
It would be my disgrace and your discomfort:
A worthy friend. The king has made him master
Is't not enough, is't not enough, young man,
Even since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?
knowledge be more it is much darkened in your malice.
age of two and twenty or thereabouts! I am
Flourish. Exeunt
Omitting the sweet benefit of time
He whispers in his ear
Ainsi dis-je, de elbow, de nick, et de sin. Comment
hence, and left me asleep! I have had a most rare
Thy grave admonishments prevail with me:
The execution of his wit, hands, heart,
I fly not death, to fly his deadly doom:
You would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in
My lord, I will be ruled,
Some sins do bear their privilege on earth,
Look through a casement to allure false hearts
Should be as moral as an old man's life?
can hardly remember.
[To EDMUND]  Then shall you go no further.
Than I have named! The bastard Faulconbridge
he's a fool, he's a great quarreller: and but that
Speak thou no more, if all the rest will speed.
And range with humble livers in content,
Fie, daughter! when my old wife lived, upon
Exit GLOUCESTER. QUEEN MARGARET drops her fan
That thus you should proceed to put me off,
Was stabb'd with bloody daggers: God, I pray him,
fellow of it.
His figure and his heat.  I was much wrapt in this,
Why, that the Moor first gave to Desdemona,
But will you, then?
We have lost our labour, they are gone a contrary
I pray thee, let me look on that again.
Lo thee!
Boy! Lucius! Fast asleep? It is no matter,
And make death proud to take us. Come, away:
And here is my speech. Stand aside, nobility.
You are such a woman! one knows not at what ward you
Holla, within!
Let fall thy lance: despair, and die!
Yet had not we determined he should die,
God dig-you-den all! Pray you, which is the head lady?
Re-enter Servant
But, with a proud majestical high scorn,
Ay, or I would these hands might never part.
'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
Infuse his breast with magnanimity
He, woman,
That suffer in exposure, let us meet,
That's as we list to grace him.
Thy cruelty in execution
Mark his condition and the event, then tell me
You gods that made me man, and sway in love,
good to thee.
In aid whereof we of the spiritualty
Coal-black is better than another hue,
She is an heir of Falconbridge.
Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting, it is a most
The whole world shall not save him.
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow,
Thou shalt not live to brag what we have offer'd.
Come, lead me to the block, bear him my head.
Most mighty princess, that I have adventured
Enter DESDEMONA with EMILIA
Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.
A soul so easy as that Englishman's.'
My spritely brethren, I propend to you
Two of them have the very bent of honour,
Come, shall we go?
Seize with thine eagle's talons.
That young Prince Edward marries Warwick's daughter.
Thou orphans' father art,
Or whether 'twas report of her success,
Return them, we are ready, and our daughter,
Is a' not? it does a man's heart good. Look you
Thank, gentle uncle. Come, lords, away.
To the people, beg their stinking breaths.
There must I be unloosed, although not there
For nature so preposterously to err,
Say, Earl of Suffolk--if thy name be so--
An yet, for all his wings, the fool was drown'd.
This queen, worth all our mundane cost.
No, Cassius, for the eye sees not itself,
And to my humble seat conform myself.
Then call our captains and our colours forth.
Hath stol'n it from her?
Lucetta, as thou lovest me, let me have
shook your back.
Well, then, here's the point:
Which holds but till thy news be uttered,
Welcome, high prince, the mighty Duke of York!
made this treaty.--You and I have known, sir.
O sir, I shall be hated to report it!
By any token of presumptuous suit,
Enter the Ghost of King Henry VI
I know not, Marcus, but I know it is,
He gives me so much of mine own, as I
friend, your brother Troilus,--
Pray you, let Cassio be received again.
And thou a natural coward, without instinct.
within, sir. I will construe to them whence you
If none of them have soul in such a kind,
Were full as lovely as is this of hers:
Fair is foul, and foul is fair:
Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
Whose rags shamed gilded arms, whose naked breast
Now I arise:
delivered him to his liberty or executed him? I
SCENE V. A hall in Capulet's house.
If in your country wars you chance to die,
But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester,
Within her womb, which, for enlargement striving,
My Lord of Hereford here, whom you call king,
Thou that wast born at sea, buried at Tarsus,
To plead your cause: it shall be therefore bootless
Do you the office, friar, which consummate,
Let her approach.
That shall be up at heaven and enter there
And in the greatness of my word, you die.
OTHELLO retires
But to his foe supposed he must complain,
you're overthrown, you're undone for ever!
I think so.
Shall not regreet our fair dominions,
bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
not very well: nay, I think it is scurvy, and begin
Nay, an there were two such, we should have none
My father's of a better nature, sir,
I did not bid you mar it to the time.
And victory, with little loss, doth play
kills a sparrow flying.
Enter ISABELLA and FRANCISCA
Now I fear thee not:
and friend Simple by your name, which way have you
Which are the movers of a languishing death,
To look so poorly and to speak so fair?
I have more care to stay than will to go:
See it so grossly shown in thy behaviors
I knew him tyrannous, and tyrants' fears
Ha! am I king? 'tis so: but Edward lives.
Of six preceding ancestors, that gem,
Than other princesses can that have more time
To BOYET
And, let me tell you, it will ne'er be well,
Enter a Servant
sword so hacked?
And then the king will court thee for his dear,
Not many moons gone by.
have greater reason to believe now than ever, I mean
dry oats. Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle
Peace, thou! and give King Henry leave to speak.
For the only she, and--pauca, there's enough. Go to.
To ruminate strange plots of dire revenge,
Or have you read or heard? or could you think?
Have we not had a taste of his obedience?
That this great king may kindly say,
And, were there sense in his idolatry,
And once again I do receive thee honest.
This let alone will all the rest confound.
qualified in, and the best of me is diligence.
Unreal mockery, hence!
Enter FERDINAND, bearing a log
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
Quoth my master:
Take honour from me, and my life is done:
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
Lord bless me! I pray God! for I am never able to
In the quick forge and working-house of thought,
him, he is gagged. I protest, I take these wise men,
I did not think you could have been so angry.
O, death's a great disguiser, and you may add to it.
ways do lie open.
there's one up.
The horn, I say. Farewell.
About some gossips for your highness.
Bardolph, be blithe: Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins:
You are transported by calamity
Never, he will not:
well. Your brother is but young and tender, and,
None, my lord.
Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight
Or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully.
All that impedes thee from the golden round,
Nay, I have verses too, I thank Biron:
Expire before the flowers in their caps,
I, King Pericles, have lost
and plenteous wit and invention:--
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
He will not be commanded: here's another,
Than these two creatures. Which is Sebastian?
Put into parts, doth keep in one consent,
Your valiant Britons have their wishes in it.
We are blest in this man, as I may say, even blest.
If fairings come thus plentifully in:
Enter REGAN and OSWALD
this controversy.
Now, afore God--God forbid I say true!--
Asmath,
The meaning, pretty ingenious?
So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason,
Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,
the burly-boned clown in chines of beef ere thou
And bade me to dismiss you.
Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers
That in the sty of this most bloody boar
Or else worth all the rest, I see thee still,
By sovereignty of nature. First he was
Will have fulfill'd their secret purposes,
Let me alone.
Hav e wander'd with our traversed arms and breathed
matter between party and party, if you chance to be
plebeians: I will be bold to take my leave of you.
PROLOGUE
Apollo would, this being indeed the issue
And slain in fight many of your enemies:
Gentlemen both, you will mistake each other.
Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth?
a man? Shallow, shallow. A better instance, I say, come.
It is a quarrel most unnatural,
Iron may hold with her, but never lutes.
her husband, another elevated that the oracle was
Then, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
Hipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom
better acquainted.
To part from Rome, Caesar is sad, and Lepidus,
Striving to make an ugly deed look fair:
An if they live, I hope I need not fear.
Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes,
And come with naked swords.
Not this, but troubles of the marriage-bed.
This is a riddling merchant for the nonce,
Virgins on each side, CERIMON and other Inhabitants
He did it with a serious mind, a heed
Lord of his reason. What though you fled
A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day,
The founder of this law and female bar.
start not so wildly from my affair.
What should I stay--
Is this the king we sent to for his ransom?
Where a malignant and a turban'd Turk
Turn not thy scorns this way, Plantagenet.
Ay, that there was, mine host, one that hath taught
On both our parts. Call yonder fellow hither.
my master.
Take heed, be wary how you place your words,
embattled against me. What say you to't, Sir John?
--Is't possible?--Confess--handkerchief!--O devil!--
Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.
You know your places: God be with you all!
No squire in debt, nor no poor knight,
their better safety, to fly away by night.
But shall I hear him speak?
And the remembrancer of her to hold
SCENE I. A room in a castle.
Warrants these words in princely courtesy.
But if you mind to hold your true obedience,
What meanest thou?
May all to Athens back again repair
We have beat them to their beds. What, girl!
Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity,
But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee,
At length, another ship had seized on us,
Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
Ply Desdemona well, and you are sure on't.
Come, good sir, will you show me to this house?
Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld
Call you? what is your will?
Gloucester and Buckingham.
By day or night,
I have three daughters, the eldest is eleven
[Seeing BIONDELLO]
By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
his legs are legs for necessity, not for flexure.
A thousand moral paintings I can show
is a 'oman that altogether's acquaintance with
Strange images of death. As thick as hail
known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should
And spies a far-off shore where he would tread,
In general riot, melted down thy youth
I'll make a journey twice as far, to enjoy
shrift and advise him for a better place. Yet you
Allow not nature more than nature needs,
How much of his displeasure.
It shall advantage more than do us wrong.
Than history can pattern, though devised
Our house is hell, and thou, a merry devil,
Some dear friend dead, else nothing in the world
I'll to the king,
Enter a Messenger
Behold, as may unworthiness define,
Follow'd his enemy king, and did him service
Throwing down a glove
Your answer had not been inscroll'd:
I will have more, or scold it out of him.
Meet to be sent on errands: is it fit,
Take then thy bond, take thou thy pound of flesh,
As many as be here of pander's hall,
I am confident,
demure travel of regard, telling them I know my
When we are both accoutred like young men,
That all I see in you is worthy love,
Shall be my precedent, as thou got'st Milan,
Banish'd the kingdom! Patience, is that letter,
To SILVIUS
That is one may reach deep enough, and yet
Of this good day and of this gracious meeting,
Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as
What out of this, my lord?
Death, having prey'd upon the outward parts,
His fault is much, and the good king his master
I would that I were low laid in my grave:
And so supplant you for ingratitude,
Enter KING HENRY VI with a supplication, and the QUEEN with SUFFOLK'S head, BUCKINGHAM and Lord SAY
He hopes 'bove wisdom, grace and fear:
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
A shrewd turn, if she pleased.
Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile:
whole camp! or rather, the bone-ache! for that,
And like a hermit overpass'd thy days.
I'll speak it in my spirit and honour, 'no.'
Lest it be said 'Speak, sirrah, when you should,
And heave it shall some weight, or break my back:
That done, dissever your united strengths,
With harsh resounding trumpets' dreadful bray,
ill-qualities.
And for one blast of thy minikin mouth,
How quickly should you speed!
Be season'd with such viands? You will answer
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
Yes, heartily beseech you.
Where is the duke? 'tis he should hear me speak.
Plucking it off
How irksome is this music to my heart!
Else the Puck a liar call,
Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of
I think it doth: is't frailty that thus errs?
Her mood will needs be pitied.
A thousand pound a year, annual support,
Did he not moralize this spectacle?
We do require them of you, so to use them
Art thou my boy?
That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter.
Be plain, Queen Margaret, and tell thy grief,
this other day, what should follow these eclipses.
That were the most, if he should husband you.
Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous,
That we must leave thee to thy sinking, for
Did mock sad fools withal: this cannot be:
nightingale.
Hang there like a fruit, my soul,
What wouldst thou?
absent,--and there shall appear such seeming truth
And no more words till they have flow'd their fill.
He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea,
It is a creature that I teach to fight,
To undertake the death of all the world,
Two chantries, where the sad and solemn priests
Know you what Caesar means to do with me?
Alarum. Here another skirmish
the lewdly-inclined. I'll bring home some to-night.
thou findest him: I would we were well rid of this
Begin, sir, you are my elder.
How does my royal lord? How fares your majesty?
Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?
For what is he they follow?  truly, gentlemen,
Relate your wrongs, in what? by whom? be brief.
letter, being so excellently ignorant, will breed no
When love begins to sicken and decay,
In your waking shall be shown:
Richard except, those whom we fight against
'Tis gone, and will not answer.
Knighted in field, slain manfully in arms,
My lords, you are appointed for that office,
So all men do, from hence to the palace gate
I am a poor man, and at your majesty's command.
Would one day stamp upon me: 't has been done,
Lest my remembrance suffer ill report,
To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
A business for yourself, pray heaven you then
winds and waters sighs and tears, they are greater
He must fight singly to-morrow with Hector, and is so
To VALERIA
As Hercules
thou now find out to hide thee from this open and
Of that true hand that fought Rome's quarrel out,
That in the field lie slain: of princes, in this number,
To FLAVIUS
I have heard, but not believed,
Shall bear along impawn'd, away to-night!
on the gown the while.
sorry, when he sent to borrow of me, that my
have heard her swear't. Tut, there's life in't,
should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I must
'Tis here!
to the world's end will have bald followers.
English tailor come hither, for stealing out of
Give me thy hand: Come.
strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?
I prithee, lady, have a better cheer,
Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms
'Tis not a year or two shows us a man:
Unless you be possess'd with devilish spirits,
As if the case were his.
O, 'twas the foulest deed to slay that babe,
take a king. And what sayest thou then to my love?
And poise the cause in justice' equal scales,
I warrant you, sir, let me alone.
Thou dost o'er-count me of my father's house:
Within thine eyes sat twenty thousand deaths,
Sings
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
That e'er I put between your holy looks
Why, then, good night indeed.
courtier, would hazard the winning both of first and last.
Welcome, Harry: what, will not this castle yield?
What willingly he did confound he wail'd,
In cases of defence 'tis best to weigh
Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel
Without leave-taking? I pray you,
A million more, now lost,--she, Eros, has
Burst smilingly.
ANTIPHOLUS
once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus:
[Aside]  Ay, and as good as Saturninus may.
It shall be with such strict and severe covenants
Shall be transported presently to France.
Ay, madam.
And here he means to spend his time awhile:
I do believe 'twas he.
What news, Sir Thomas Lovell?
To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
Pray you, mark.
By Jove, I always took three threes for nine.
I may not conceal them, sir.
Say, 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'
SCENE IV. A Hall in York Place.
And you that love the commons, follow me.
I cannot tell: the world is grown so bad,
Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die,
ACT V
With raven's feather from unwholesome fen
Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,
Upon my target three fair-shining suns.
Exit
Had I more name for badness.
Than pity note how much. Therefore, be gone.
That Rome is but a wilderness of tigers?
The love I bore your queen--lo, fool again!--
Thou mayst not wander in that labyrinth,
The blood of youth burns not with such excess
And that I have possess'd him my most stay
So that, as clear as is the summer's sun.
Than for to think that I would sink it here.
as a drunken sleep, careless, reckless, and fearless
The sceptre, learning, physic, must
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
Am I this patient log--man.
Of noble minds is honourable meed.
It is a branch and parcel of mine oath,
An earnest conjuration from the king,
And show me to the shouting varletry
Than those that walk and wot not what they are.
Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold
And bid his ears a little while be deaf,
Be brief, lest that be process of thy kindness
When we have chid the hasty-footed time
And hath as oft a slanderous epitaph
rail against all the first-born of Egypt.
Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard,
I bear unto the banish'd Valentine,
Which thus she hath prevented.
Out of the Duke of Buckingham.
Exit
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Ay, where thou darest
Till, gnawing with my teeth my bonds in sunder,
They that must weigh out my afflictions,
What a strange drowsiness possesses them!
Re-enter RODERIGO
Hooting and shrieking. When these prodigies
Exit Chamberlain, and KING HENRY VIII draws the curtain, and sits reading pensively
the revenue that was old Sir Rowland's will I
He is as like thee as a man may be,
That may offend the isle.--But here they come:
To grace us with your royal company.
I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice: I
He that keeps nor crust nor crum,
Why, all these should be in the lanthorn, for all
For the ingredients of our cauldron.
ANTIPHOLUS
Now, signior, what news?
I think my wife be honest and think she is not,
By this device.
to notify that her husband will be absence from his
[Within]  Francis!
A madness, of which her life's in danger. Heavens,
Will't please you hear me?
Affairs of Antony, there did persuade
Wear it, enjoy it, and make much of it.
palm-tree. I was never so be-rhymed since
What's the matter! there be four of us here have
Grace grow where those drops fall!
Another spread on's breast, mounting his eyes
make me afeard.
Why, then, I will. Farewell, old Gaunt.
very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho?
It is, my lord.
Nor never by advised purpose meet
To see inherited my very wishes
As will disperse itself through all the veins
It may be I shall otherwise bethink me.
When with a happy storm they were surprised
Come in, without there!
a fair pair of heels and run from it?
Trumpet sounds
So many mermaids, tended her i' the eyes,
Ay, but to die, and go we know not where,
Of all his people shall revolt from him
What a vice were it in Ajax now,--
she will: and truly she deserves it, for if there
O judgment! thou art fled to brutish beasts,
craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.
Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny
hath the worser sole. This shoe, with the hole in
What then?
A ladder brought, which AARON is made to ascend
Now, the report goes she has all the rule of her
And set a precious crown upon thy head,
Where died she?
Ride, ride, Messala: let them all come down.
An thou shouldst, thou 'ldst anger ladies.
Where?
business, and I will merrily accompany you home.
Enter the KING, SALISBURY, WARWICK, to the CARDINAL in bed
matter: an old man, sir, and his wits are not so
fish for she would not exchange flesh with one that
His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us
Manly as Hector, but more dangerous,
As much as me my dukedom.
My soul doth tell me Hero is belied,
We are enow yet living in the field
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
We cannot be here and there too. Cheerly, boys, be
Peter Quince! Flute, the bellows-mender! Snout,
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
and more than that, he can speak French, and
Exit BIONDELLO
For well you know here comes in embassy
Sluiced out his innocent soul through streams of blood:
No die, but an ace, for him, for he is but one.
Have shaken Edward from the regal seat,
The third day comes a frost, a killing frost,
call upon you.
I am not yet instructed.
That villanous abominable misleader of youth,
And tear the stain'd skin off my harlot-brow
Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
Which great Love grant! and so, I take my leave.
As I had rather hide me from my greatness,
Too great for what contains it. Boy! O slave!
Sound trumpet, Edward shall be here proclaim'd:
Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee?
As for words, whose greatness answers words,
Why all these things change from their ordinance
I thank you, general,
Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench,
All that may men approve or men detect!
Sort how it will, I shall have gold for all.
And she died singing it: that song to-night
Are all too dear for me: lie they upon thy hand,
For a light wife doth make a heavy husband,
day's journey.
And shall I have?
But that the scambling and unquiet time
Doubt not, sir,
I love not many words.
Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute?
To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
What comfort is for Claudio?
The cloudy messenger turns me his back,
I cannot tremble at it: were it Toad, or
If he should offer to choose, and choose the right
Enter LODOVICO. MONTANO, CASSIO carried in a chair, and Officers with IAGO, prisoner
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but EXETER
Ride thou unto the horsemen on yon hill:
her wind so short, as if she were frayed with a
That is enough to satisfy the senate.
he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
His nurse! why, she was dead ere thou wert born.
This treasure of an oyster, at whose foot,
Besides himself, are all the English peers,
If the ground be overcharged, you were best stick her.
Stands, as the Capitol, directly here.
And carry back to Sicily much tall youth
Remember Margaret was a prophetess.'
Enter BORACHIO and CONRADE
When you depart from him, but, soft and low,
Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
To see his daughter, all his life's delight.
Prithee, nuncle, tell me whether a madman be a
Exeunt
stolen out of other affairs, but I will attend you awhile.
Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
There is no virtue like necessity.
Stretch him out longer.
Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bowers.
I have sixty sails, Caesar none better.
And you may then revolve what tales I have told you
Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
of an ass, which is no great hurt.
Him I forgive my death that killeth me
But more for that in low simplicity
I cannot tell what you and other men
Madam, O good empress!
rogues, give me my horse, and be hanged!
And shape of likelihood, the news was told,
By gar, he is de coward Jack priest of de vorld, he
And but for our approach those sleeping stones,
seas, live in fire, eat rocks, tame tigers, thinking
I have.
Such was the very armour he had on
No more of him, for I will deal with him
Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
That thus I have resign'd my charge to you.
Bloody and guilty, guiltily awake,
Pardon me, Caius Cassius:
If I know how or which way to order these affairs
BEDFORD dies, and is carried in by two in his chair
Thou know'st we parted: but perhaps, my son,
To her allowing husband!
Weary and old with service, to the mercy
Shall I destroy him? whether there, or there, or there?
Come, go with us, we'll look to that anon:
Sit down awhile,
That when the sea was calm all boats alike
Another way so high a hope that even
Enter OTHELLO and IAGO
You do yourself wrong, indeed, la!
Why then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?
And carriage of the article design'd,
Who worse than a physician
Enter MELUN, wounded
By light we lose light: your capacity
Though justice be thy plea, consider this,
But me more good, to see so great a lord
God's will! my liege, would you and I alone,
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, and his Army
For I upon this bank will rest my head.
To make the noble Leonatus mad,
Enter THURIO, PROTEUS, and JULIA
Urge the necessity and state of times,
And what's to come of my despised time
Touches me deeper than you can imagine.
Thou hast one son, for his sake pity me,
Fight, gentlemen of England! fight, bold yoemen!
And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir:
Shrewdness of policy too, I grieving grant
The prime man of the state? I pray you, tell me,
sufficient testimony that I have enjoyed the dearest
caparisoned like a man, I have a doublet and hose in
Stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
I and my brother are not known, yourself
And what to?
And that's a good root.
Cousin of York, we institute your grace
what's the matter?
thy hand to laugh a little.
Let me be clear of thee.
Which often leaves the history unspoke
I am sure it was your wife's--did I to-day
the Florentine?
The horn, the horn, the lusty horn
And be not fix'd in doom perpetual,
And nothing can we call our own but death
I did, my lord.
what says Sir John Sack and Sugar? Jack! how
Farewell. Who shall answer him?
To fair content and you: none here, he hopes,
a-hungry, to challenge him the field, and then to
To be a spokesman for Madam Silvia.
The Tuscan service, freely have they leave
Believe me, queen, your swarth Cimmerian
There is, there is.
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
I would they were barbarians--as they are,
Know'st thou this paper?
to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.
What is it else? a madness most discreet,
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE, guarded, and a Shepherd
I will have my revenge ere I depart his house.
With what he would say, let him feel your sword,
What, what?
I have too much believed mine own suspicion:
Unless her prayers, whom heaven delights to hear
between Saint Denis and Saint George, compound a
SCENE IV. A room in ANGELO's house.
We stand up peerless.
you may take him at your pleasure: I will be near
Away towards Salisbury! while we reason here,
If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too.
with half Windsor at his heels, to search for such a
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
And say it was thy mother that thou meant'st
Shall Caesar send a lie?
Why, I said nothing.
Ye re goodly things, you voices!
Mine, such as fill my heart with unhoped joys.
[Aside]  Hortensio, say thou wilt see the tailor paid.
Once more to look on him.
ANTIPHOLUS
in flesh and blood.
Come on, sir, hold.
What thou seest when thou dost wake,
O!
How can she thus then call us by our names,
Here's too small a pasture for such store of muttons.
Kept in my soul, and would not let it forth
The fever whereof all our power is sick.
Of no more soul nor fitness for the world
Enter LADY PERCY
Alarums. MATTHEW GOFFE is slain, and all the rest. Then enter CADE, with his company.
Bring us to his cave:
His plate, his goods, his money and his lands.
Which now in some slight measure it will pay,
Yield, my lord protector, yield, Winchester,
That's Christian care enough: for living murmurers
Come, Suffolk, I must waft thee to thy death.
to come in disguised against me to try a fall.
I'ld speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
Brother, the king hath made your nephew mad.
Plead you to me, fair dame? I know you not:
The fairest queen that ever king received.
In every borough as we pass along,
Exeunt KING LEAR and CORDELIA, guarded
And do him homage as obedient subjects,
But she I mean is promised by her friends
And so, without more circumstance at all,
The which thou once didst bend against her breast,
Come, to the port. I'll tell thee, Diomed,
tell him my mind.
What, hoa! Got pless your house here!
The words of heaven, on whom it will, it will,
Sticks me at heart. Sir, you have well deserved:
My Lord Sands, you are one will keep 'em waking,
Will we return unto thy father's house
but that a wise burgher put in for them.
For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith,
Come, my old son: I pray God make thee new.
What nearer debt in all humanity
countenance her.
Above the reach or compass of thy thought?
Nay, come away.
Upon the pikes o' the hunters. Then began
had banished thy uncle, the duke my father, so thou
Should you do so, my lord,
My purpose should not fail with me,
To fright you thus, methinks, I am too savage,
Therefore, my lord protector, give consent
My lord, that would dishonour him.
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
Now, if you love me, stay.
O, peace, Paulina!
Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath
For everlasting bond of fellowship--
Forgive the comment that my passion made
Of the imperial theme.--I thank you, gentlemen.
He was famous, sir, in his profession, and it was
No, Publius and Sempronius, you must do it,
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
That thou shalt do no murder: and wilt thou, then,
And gave his countenance, against his name,
The Dauphin is preparing hitherward,
I would forget her, but a fever she
That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst
Nay, weep not, gentle Eros, there is left us
Madam, my instrument's in tune.
Some honest Christian trust me with a gage
And let not women's weapons, water-drops,
Tawny-finn'd fishes, my bended hook shall pierce
And her to incest did provoke:
It wounds thine honour that I speak it now--
To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
Have won his grace to come in person hither
Not long before your highness sped to France,
Exeunt
I would I were invisible, to catch the strong
Good Costard, go with me. Sir, God save your life!
Sir, for a quart d'ecu he will sell the fee-simple
O wither'd truth!
For eighteen months concluded by consent.
Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?
Exeunt Arragon and train
'Item: She is not to be kissed fasting in respect
My lord, I cannot.
My weaved-up folly? Gentle Northumberland,
look to 't.
Dost thou hear, my honest friend?
And pour our treasures into foreign laps,
And keep us all in servile fearfulness.
His rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last,
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
is to be a counterfeit, for he is but the
These that survive let Rome reward with love,
show in the posterior of this day, to be rendered by
One Hero died defiled, but I do live,
dismiss the controversy bleeding the more entangled
tale in telling it, and deliver a plain message
With all these living in philosophy.
at home, I was in a better place: but travellers
An oath, an oath, I have an oath in heaven:
Of pale distemperatures and foes to life?
There's no trust,
How now! which of your hips has the most profound sciatica?
O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!
And thither will I bring thee, Valentine.
But, being over-full of self-affairs,
Provost, how came it Claudio was beheaded
But now, my lord.
Here comes your father, tell him so yourself,
And mingle with the English epicures:
Affection makes him false, he speaks not true:
Therefore no more turn me to him, sweet Nan.
Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir:
A French crown more.
Tell him thy entertainment: look, thou say
The bastard brains with these my proper hands
With this young prince.
And by the way possess thee what she is.
sack finely.
Here did she fall a tear, here in this place
the ears of profiting, that what thou speakest may
Is Fulvia's death.
When we may profit meet, and come too late.
Great lords and gentlemen, what means this silence?
Of arts inhibited and out of warrant.
flint for want of meat, depart reeling with too
Enter Citizens,  and c
In all her best array bear her to church:
Lord Douglas, go you and tell him so.
Unless my study and my books be false,
See you here, sir?
Their woes are parcell'd, mine are general.
believe all that they say, shall never be saved by
Ay, traitor.
The smile mocking the sigh, that it would fly
If this thou do deny, let our hands part,
The moody frontier of a servant brow.
My lord, I neither can nor will deny
And, to be more than what you were, you would
Ay, you are honest men.
And, if you love me, as I think you do,
Faith, not me.
As fair and as good--a kind of hand-in-hand
In answer of which claim, the prince our master
Embrace thy brother there, rejoice with him.
No more my grief, in such a precious loss.
And what is 'a stone,' William?
Enter HASTINGS
Ever to read them thine.
That one of two bad ways you must conceit me,
Advances
Exit ANNE PAGE
Protest my ears were never better fed
No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
To me a break-neck. Happy star, reign now!
wouldst not have slipped out of my contemplation: but
Your pleasure, madam?
That sets them on: let me have way, my lord,
Which is that god in office, guiding men?
Away even now, or I will drag thee hence:
The king, I fear, is poison'd by a monk:
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue,
Where is thy conscience now?
And left me to a bootless inquisition,
Away, my lord, away!
It does, my boy:
I think the policy of that purpose made more in the
This deed I'll do before this purpose cool.
Abusing better men than they can be,
Through this house each fairy stray.
I embrace these conditions, let us have articles
Of such enchanting presence and discourse,
My lord, I have news to tell you.
Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby,
If we choose by the horns, yourself come not near.
Exeunt
And, whereas I was black and swart before,
I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither on my legs.
Demand.
And tame the savage spirit of wild war,
To things of sale a seller's praise belongs,
King Lewis, I here protest, in sight of heaven,
To accept my grief and whilst this poor wealth lasts
I prithee, recount some of them.
I never gave them condign punishment:
Why, for that too.
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
'Twere good, yours did, for, sir, to tell you plain,
With mine own hands I give away my crown,
With humble suit: no, rather let my head
are to be loved. No, my good lord, banish Peto,
Brutus had rather be a villager
Is all afraid to govern thee near him,
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
A living drollery. Now I will believe
I am he that is so love-shaked: I pray you tell me
O, cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it,
And then run mad indeed, stark mad! for all
Will you go hear this news, signior?
O dear Phebe,
Enter below, multitudes, with halters about their necks
Hear me with patience.
At the Saint Francis here beside the port.
Didst thou not say he lied?
It would have madded me: what shall I do
Shall not be wink'd at, how shall we stretch our eye
Therefore each one betake him to his rest,
To pray for this good man and for his issue,
It is too hard a knot for me to untie!
Now, welcome, Kate: and bear me witness all,
And but in purged judgment trusting neither?
Upon my soul--
His forces strong, his soldiers confident.
And sight-outrunning were not, the fire and cracks
Nay then you jest, and now I well perceive
Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
Envied against the people, seeking means
It is an earnest of a further good
That you will feed on, but what is, come see.
father had never a house but the cage.
My answer must be made. But I am arm'd,
From thine invention, offers: women are not
Blow like sweet roses in this summer air.
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
That we have had no time to move our daughter:
By your patience, Aunchient Pistol. Fortune is
And the vile squealing of the wry-neck'd fife,
By magot-pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
Deposed his nephew Richard, Edward's son,
O, ay, as summer flies are in the shambles,
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
With this ungracious paper strike the sight
is the right Vincentio.
Exit
discovers it.
Against your yet ungalled estimation
in't, and I would I were the first that ever
As much for my poor brother as myself:
To join with witches and the help of hell!
Commanded nature, that my lady's womb,
Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are:
I have no more sons of the royal blood
When nights are longest there: I'll take my leave.
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
But will they come when you do call for them?
dishonour we had in the loss of that drum, but it is
And bid the owners quench them with their tears.
And tell them both the circumstance of all,
Your wisdom in the deed.
A most virtuous princess.
He's poor in no one fault, but stored with all.
It grieves his highness: good my lords, be friends.
I'll attend your lordship.
The unkindest beast more kinder than mankind.
And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
His body will I bear unto the king:
The upper Germany, can dearly witness,
Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well.
What, shall we toward the Tower? the day is spent.
Marry, sir, for this something that you gave me for nothing.
The Ladies turn their backs to him
knavery. If he may be conveniently delivered, I
Neither.
And when mine oratory grew to an end
Here, my good lord.
this hour, and your son here at home, more advanced
[Within]  I do beseech you
Full weak to undertake our wars against
Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
A friend. What art thou?
Appear there for a man. Speak not against it:
Enter ROMEO
The temple-haunting martlet, does approve,
One fit to bandy with thy lawless sons,
be out of all compass, out of all reasonable
This was my lord's best hope, now all are fled,
Have rived the knotty oaks, and I have seen
To get his place and to plume up my will
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
Yet is it true, sir.
My lords, at once: the care you have of us,
To PAROLLES
That done, conduct him to the drunkard's chamber,
Bring forth these men.
Their tables were stored full, to glad the sight,
Sweet poetry and Tully's Orator.
Four nights will quickly dream away the time,
Conditionally, that here thou take an oath
Arise, dissembler: though I wish thy death,
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Then here's a man stands, that has brought his pardon.
Ay.
SCENE I. Britain. The garden of Cymbeline's palace.
Doors, that were ne'er acquainted with their wards
Here in your city, I now came from him:
Alack, and fie for shame!
Peasant, unless thou give me crowns, brave crowns,
I should not see the sandy hour-glass run,
Her knots disorder'd and her wholesome herbs
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
Their fears of hostile strokes, their aches, losses,
To take off so much grief from you as he
Thus to excuse yourself.
Captain Alcibiades, your heart's in the field now.
And craves no other tribute at thy hands
ANTIPHOLUS
Your name, fair gentlewoman?
I the great toe! why the great toe?
pleasure to you in being so. You blame Marcius for
That ever fell upon this cursed earth.
Good sir, this ring was given me by my wife,
Mine honour, it. Repent that e'er thy tongue
The book of his good acts, whence men have read
In purchasing the semblance of my soul
No, nor never shall do in such a place as this, she
So fare my limbs with long imprisonment.
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
Good fool, help me to some light and some paper: I
remember me, his name is Falstaff: if that man
When gouty keepers of thee cannot stand.
The precious jewel of thy home return.
Think on thy Proteus, when thou haply seest
a man, and what a thing should I have been when I
God and our innocency defend and guard us!
His liberty is full of threats to all,
As I had made my meal, and parted
O foolish Cressid! I might have still held off,
And struck him on his knee: in that day's feats,
I was not born to die on Brutus' sword.
wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
But here comes Thurio: now must we to her window,
Worse and worse.
Tell me, Othello: I wonder in my soul,
and a good jest for ever.
Dealt on lieutenantry, and no practise had
Were poor and single business to contend
Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing
Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir:
I'll stay above the hill, so both may shoot.
Where is our usual manager of mirth?
And all their lands restored to them again
the fifth, if I.
As may compact it more. Get you gone,
Eating the bitter bread of banishment,
Your plainness and your shortness please me well.
in all my life.
She is thy enemy, and I thy friend:
A proper squire! And who, and who? which way looks
Indeed, because you are a banish'd man,
Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf:
At any Syracusian marts and fairs,
Amen, amen! Mount, chevaliers! to arms!
When we do quicken. Desdemona comes:
be not Jack Falstaff, then am I a Jack. There is Percy:
My lord, we always have confess'd it.
We come to be informed by yourselves
May it be possible, that foreign hire
Advanced in time to great and high estate,
Exeunt Ladies
A liberal hand: the hearts of old gave hands,
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
Would thou and those thy scars had once prevail'd
Honour is cudgelled. Well, bawd I'll turn,
That before you, and next unto high heaven,
'twere come to that!
Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
Of both your armies, whose equality
O, speak to me no more,
They fight. DOUGLAS kills SIR WALTER BLUNT. Enter HOTSPUR
Or women's sake, by whom we men are men,
to a husband we set his youngest free for a husband,
Exeunt HUBERT with PETER
my son.' 'My daughter.' 'He killed my cousin
Not that I have the power to clutch my hand,
twenty, good Master Page! Master Page, will you go
If this which he avouches does appear,
Enter SIR STEPHEN SCROOP
RICHARD
A moiety of the throne a great king's daughter,
For once allow'd the skilful pilot's charge?
I am for the air, this night I'll spend
Look, where he comes.
In prenzie guards! Dost thou think, Claudio?
your ladyship. I have your own letter that induced
Young man, thou couldst not die more honourable.
I hold me highly honour'd of your grace:
Hold, there's expenses for thee.
Exeunt
Her tongue will not obey her heart, nor can
palaces, treason, and the bond cracked 'twixt son
Nor doth he dedicate one jot of colour
till our very pastime, tired out of breath, prompt
Like one another's glass to trim them by:
tell thee how the prince, Claudio and my master,
As friends to Antioch, we may feast in Tyre.
All pomp and majesty I do forswear,
And from the ladder-tackle washes off
They cannot budge till your release. The king,
Which the false man does easy. I'll to England.
Which thou thyself hast given her woful breast.
better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
For I shall never speak to thee again.
Come in, woman!
Enter AGRIPPA at one door, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS at another
Exit above
What Clarence but a quicksand of deceit?
Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament
O, I must, madam:
And we are women's men.
'Tis this slave,--
O, none so welcome.
Begins to swell, and the approaching tide
Of the young prince, whose honourable thoughts,
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
No doubt, my liege, if each man do his best.
come to me and prings me pread and salt yesterday,
I could have given my uncle's grace a flout,
No, I am promised forth.
That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.
Bruise me with scorn, confound me with a flout,
Like him you are: did you not name a tempest,
Be not amazed, right noble is his blood.
rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb, vary
here,--this, who, like a block, hath denied my
made a little fault in 'Great.'
Which you do here forbid me, royal Priam.
I think this tale would win my daughter too.
Is far beyond a prince's delicates,
and on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,
SCENE I. The French King's pavilion.
Go to the king, and let there be impawn'd
Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death,
Be a sufficient ransom for offence,
All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence?
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
Come, lay aside your stitchery, I must have you play
That this our court, infected with their manners,
You still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes
Then, heigh-ho, the holly!
This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
That I am forced to lay my reverence by
John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole,
That he was never trained up in arms.
Enter, in arms, LEWIS, SALISBURY, MELUN, PEMBROKE, BIGOT, and Soldiers
He shall here find his friends with horse and men
God bless your grace! we see it, and will say it.
The gods requite his charity!'
Lucius, all hail, Rome's royal emperor!
But O, the thorns we stand upon! Camillo,
From forth the noise and rumour of the field,
So many miles with a pretence? this place?
Those that Hobgoblin call you and sweet Puck,
In giving him his right.
this great world.
because it hath no bottom, and I will sing it in the
Till we can clear these ambiguities,
ready here hard by in the brew-house: and when I
If you did wed my sister for her wealth,
Hast not the soft way which, thou dost confess,
Soldiers, sir.
My clerk hath some good comforts too for you.
Your own renowned knowledge, quite forego
We learn no other but the confident tyrant
O, I am slain!
Nay, good, be patient.
SCENE V. London. The palace.
Take your commission, hie you to your bands:
More free from motion, no, not Death himself
Must I observe you? must I stand and crouch
I cannot tell vat is dat.
Sir, I have not you by the hand.
And from the great and new-made Duke of Suffolk,
the thanksgiving before meat, do relish the petition
To that destruction which I'll guard them from,
'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
Of all that I do know: nor know I aught
That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
Ay, and burn too.
Do we so.
mark Alexander's life well, Harry of Monmouth's life
Your virtue is my privilege: for that
Would think upon you for your voices and
Re-enter MOTH with COSTARD
And I of him will gather patience.
But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.
But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees,
Yes, if you love me, sir.
This happy breed of men, this little world,
I wonder if Titania be awaked,
That mercy which true prayer ought to have.
Here on my knee I beg mortality,
We should hold day with the Antipodes,
That, out of mere ambition, you have caused
Since Leonatus's false.
Mine eyes cannot hold out water, methinks: to
Towards which advance the war.
Such hideous cries, that with the very noise
O, if thou teach me to believe this sorrow,
Whose nature sickens but to speak a truth.
Sir William Brandon, you shall bear my standard.
Are to your throne and state children and servants,
another letter to her: she bears the purse too, she
The sway, revenue, execution of the rest,
against whom I know most faults.
How you awake our sleeping sword of war:
I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in
upon this riddle runs the wisdom of the world. This
She that was ever fair and never proud,
could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks,
all the chamber smelt him. 'Out with the dog!' says
Call her again.
Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin
Makest thou this shame thy pastime?
That day he overcame the Nervii:
These hands do lack nobility, that they strike
Thou hast hit it: come, sit on me.
And part in just proportion our small strength.
Marry, he told me so himself, and he said he cared
Her only fault, and that is faults enough,
Now wears his crown.
Now, my Lord Hastings and Sir William Stanley,
The general and his wife are talking of it,
Aside
Publicola, and Caelius, are for sea:
And, might we lay the old proverb to your charge,
I chose her when I could not ask my father
A widow, husbandless, subject to fears,
Was carried with more speed before the wind,
Thy brothers are condemn'd, and dead by this.
What do you think of me?
I cannot tell.
But I have, sir, a son by order of law, some year
We took him setting of boys' copies.
He shall not.
dish of some three-pence, your honours have seen
Nothing but fair is that which you inherit.
Get ye all three into the box-tree: Malvolio's
And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner.
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
Than that mix'd in his cheek, 'twas just the difference
Who knows if one of her women, being corrupted,
As looks the mother on her lowly babe
Exeunt
remain unseduced, you not making it appear
I am no pilot, yet, wert thou as far
Sans witchcraft could not.
SCENE IV. A camp in Wales.
What, is the fellow mad?
you should know my daughter by her garments?
Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience
A combination and a form indeed,
Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony: who,
Yonder comes a poet and a painter: the plague of
This ship-boy's semblance hath disguised me quite.
Rises
I am not worthy yet to wear: I shall, assuredly.
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
But yet a woman: and for secrecy,
Like aqua-vitae with a midwife.
The colour of the king doth come and go
Come on, sir knave, have done your foolishness,
which with,--O, with--but with this I passion to say
the chain, but, I warrant you, the women have so
I will not hurt him.
And I will do so.
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
To make a bloody supper in the Tower.
Carnally, she says.
So are they all, for every grise of fortune
a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
art changed for Antenor: thou must to thy father,
And meritorious shall that hand be call'd,
Come, my captain knows you not.
I swear to do this, though a present death
No believing you, indeed, sir. But did you perceive
Turn you where your lady is
How now, Sir Proteus! Is your countryman
lamp of her and run from her by her own light. I
above seven times a week, went to a bawdy-house once
And since we have the vaward of the day,
and free him.
back again with advantage. Be with me betimes in
With an unslipping  knot, take Antony
you shall hear music and see the gentleman that you asked for.
You're sad, Signior Balthazar: pray God our cheer
And with such sober and unnoted passion
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
I have a head, sir, that will find out logs,
deities be despised. Lend to each man enough, that
Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?
He will awake my mercy which lies dead:
Where, by her own most clear remembrance, she
boldness of my cunning, I will lay myself in hazard.
The nobility are vex'd, whom we see have sided
Not in my house, Lucentio, for, you know,
Take but good note, and you shall see in him.
beast, I say:--I was sending to use Lord Timon
'Tis thought you have a goodly gift in horning,
A ripe age. Is thy name William?
cannot come out on's grave.
Unworthy though thou art, I'll cope with thee
Boult, spend thou that in the town: report what a
In what place of the field doth Calchas keep?
Of Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk, nor of Kent,
Heaven ever laid up to make parents happy,
Than what I fear, for always I am Caesar.
That I do fawn on men and hug them hard
presents Hector of Troy, the swain, Pompey the
Senators,  and C	Weapons, weapons, weapons!
A pair of cursed hell-hounds and their dam!
Which shall be shortly, single I'll resolve you,
O, ho! entreat her!
Speak you this in my praise, master?
SCENE II. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
And forced to drink their vapour.
If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a soused
To tumble down thy husband and thyself
For so appears this fleet majestical,
Within
The little casket bring me hither.
Pronouncing that the paleness of this flower
Alarum as in battle. Enter, from opposite sides, MARCIUS and AUFIDIUS
Wherein we are not destitute for want,
I know him as myself, for from our infancy
Exeunt
Pertains to you alone.
I charge thee on thy allegiance.
Divide your happy England into four,
Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing
ACT I
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
What bloody man is that? He can report,
Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me, do not, Phebe,
Varro's
In thy best robes uncover'd on the bier
For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.
The sooner, sweet, for you.
My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten
Witness the process of your speech, wherein
Cressid is mine, tied with the bonds of heaven:
The pretty follies that themselves commit,
Neither: he took this place for sanctuary,
Linger your patience on, and we'll digest
Loseth men's hearts and leaves behind a stain
By custom of the coronation.
But the queen's kindred and night-walking heralds
Where's Dolabella,
fustian with one's own shadow? O thou invisible
Ye white-limed walls! ye alehouse painted signs!
An odd man, lady! every man is odd.
That it will please you
She's tickled now, her fume needs no spurs,
What is it
No.
'Faith, my acquaintance lies little amongst them.
Tripp'd me behind, being down, insulted, rail'd,
Do but mistake.
Yes, if it please your majesty, my liege.
country, Sicilia, prithee speak no more, whose very
Yet have I fierce affections, and think
wounds upon him.
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
Ah, Exeter!
I see, sir, you are eaten up with passion:
Brutus, my lord!
That my report is just and full of truth.
A shout within
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
We do not act that often jest and laugh,
I have more cause to hate him than to love him:
O, my sweet beef, I must still be good angel to
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS, with Attendants
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
And if thou vanquishest, thy words are true,
Which we in justice cannot well deny,
Will scare the herd, and so my shoot is lost.
trick. If you will hang me for it, you may, but I
Ay, every dram of woman's flesh is false, If she be.
Could not keep quiet in his conscience,
Is not a thing to laugh to scorn.
Why should I then be false, since it is true
Intended or committed was this fault?
I am the Douglas, fatal to all those
Cry, Trojans, cry! lend me ten thousand eyes,
To have a foolish wife.
Signior Arme--Arme--commends you. There's villany
Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter
No, prelate, such is thy audacious wickedness,
Blame both my lord and me, that we have taken
The tackle of my heart is crack'd and burn'd,
And leave his navy gazing.
O, very well, I have perused the note.
'Suum cuique' is our Roman justice:
Tell her the process of Antonio's end,
The glove which I have given him for a favour
I have a sonnet that will serve the turn
Not a word of Costard yet.
ACT II
And on that day at noon whereon he says
And thou art twice her love.
So, lie thou there,
And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king,
My most honour'd lord,
If e'er your grace had speech with man so poor,
They swore that you were almost sick for me.
O Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!
More to know
you something to know it.
this advise you, follow. So he wishes you all
Take up this good old man, and cheer the heart
thank thee. Let them say 'tis grossly done, so it be
I prithee, good Grumio, tell me, how goes the world?
though not with bag and baggage, yet with scrip and scrippage.
Caius Marcius was
Heaven keep me from such counsel! 'Tis most true
The keys of all the posterns: please your highness
Re-enter Hostess
Deserve such pity of him as the wolf
Death and destruction dog thee at the heels,
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and MENENIUS
A natural and prompt alacrity
Alas, he hath no home, no place to fly to,
Do you uphold and maintain in your speeches,
ACT I
Ride on the pants triumphing!
He loves the gallimaufry: Ford, perpend.
at home and be hanged.
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
how it takes up the shore! but that's not the
is very well, what he has spoke to me, that is well,
A horse and a man
I am glad on't, 'tis a worthy governor.
Who have been false to Fulvia? Riotous madness,
Enter ACHILLES, with Myrmidons
If for the last, say ay, and to it, lords.
town, are come to fetch you to church.
Schoolmasters will I keep within my house,
Which wash both heaven and hell, and thou, that hast
So, sir.
Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers,
Sit you down, father, rest you
breaking out.
O Charmian, I will never go from hence.
SCENE IV. The same. KING PHILIP'S tent.
And there present yourself and your fair princess,
thou, Trot? Is the world as it was, man? Which is
Of roaring, shrieking, howling, jingling chains,
For the rain,  and c.
Whom I with pain have woo'd and won thereto,
Cool it with a baboon's blood,
that hath been long studying at Rheims, as cunning
The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition,
Fie, fie, fie! cuckold! cuckold! cuckold!
You are too much mistaken in this king:
letters yourself: and so, sir, I'll commend you to my master.
With this same play, against your nuptial.
That hand, which, for thy love, did kill thy love,
That wishing well had not a body in't,
That it will glimmer through a blind man's eye.
If his occasion were not virtuous,
And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof,
As well the fear of harm, as harm apparent,
That, after this strange starting from your orbs,
And wilt thou learn of me?
Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe
In second husband let me be accurst!
Caesar can hide the sun from us with a blanket, or
Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
There to be used according to your state.
Then further, all dissembling set aside,
Exeunt
Bewitch your hearts, be wise and circumspect.
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
I slew him there.
Upon the dull earth dwelling:
To be the aim of every dangerous shot,
'Tis lack of kindly warmth they are not kind,
This is all.
To hold thine own and leave thine own with him.
To dare the vile contagion of the night
belly, ere I should come by a fire to thaw me: but
child or pupil, undertake your ben venuto, where I
And now like Nilus, it disdaineth bounds.
Cowardly knight! ill fortune follow thee!
At Southam I did leave him with his forces,
You are my mother, madam, would you were,--
Whom with my bare fists I would execute,
men being in love have then a nobility in their
Than that of painted pomp? Are not these woods
Then out it goes. What though I know her virtuous
I have cried her almost to the number of her hairs,
That Edward shall be fearful of his life,
Is of a sudden thus advanced in Rome?
The thwartings of your dispositions, if
have by underhand means laboured to dissuade him from
Then give me leave, for losers will have leave
'Here I give to understand,
That you resolved to effect.
My lord, I fear,
I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
but forth to wash him in the Hellespont and being
Leaves Tarsus and again embarks. He swears
Are shuffled off with such uncurrent pay:
Too long a pause for that which you find there.
From my succession wipe me, father, I
This is above all strangeness.
That charge their breath against us? say, scout, say.
much out of quiet. For Monsieur Malvolio, let me
To lesson me and tell me some good mean
deliver you.
What tidings can you tell me of my lord?
To keep itself from noyance, but much more
Our comfort in the country. We must find
Anon, from thy insulting tyranny,
That part of tyranny that I do bear
And wear his colours like a tumbler's hoop!
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
The thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict,
And when goes hence?
We will not part from hence. Cesario, come,
For, being not propp'd by ancestry, whose grace
Upon the king! let us our lives, our souls,
there were no living near her, she would infect to
What! I must have a care of you.
These Lincoln Washes have devoured them,
Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king?
wouldst not be a villain, but do me true service,
Indeed! ay, indeed: discern'st thou aught in that?
Exit
Exit CLOTEN
Such as she says my lord did say I was.
And he her dieter.
As one that are best acquainted with her humour.
Can curses pierce the clouds and enter heaven?
SATURNINUS reads the letter
My lord?
So thou wilt woo, but else, not for the world.
The mayor and all his brethren in best sort,
Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile,
Seest thou this letter? take it up, I pray thee,
whom Cominius the general is gone, with one part of
For no ill will I bear you.
Till when, go seek thy fortune.
Upon my life, Petruchio means but well,
But since you have made the days and nights as one,
There's tricks i' the world, and hems, and beats her heart,
Of all the days of the year, upon that day:
never draw sword again.
Hear sweet discourse, converse with noblemen.
apes into hell.
gallants. We lost too much money this mart by being
Excuse me so, coming too short of thanks
Launcelot Gobbo, do not run, scorn running with thy
For here the Trojans taste our dear'st repute
Rank of gross diet, shall be enclouded,
'Tis present death I beg, and one thing more
Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,
And let us, ciphers to this great accompt,
But Henry now shall wear the English crown,
The king will venture at it. Either the cardinal,
fasting-days, and moreo'er puddings and flap-jacks,
And led my country's strength successfully,
Son, I'll be your half, Bianca comes.
As it hath been to us rare, pleasant, speedy,
love hath made thee a tame snake, and say this to
To Marcius shall be honours, though indeed
How now, good fellow! wouldst thou speak with us?
Rehearse that once more.
Live with authority: so soon we shall drive back
his goods:' right, many a man has good horns, and
that she sends you to prison hither?
Eating a root
The better shall my purpose work on him.
Upon your favours swims with fins of lead
When in the why and the wherefore is neither rhyme
What's that? what's that?
And mine that I was proud on, mine so much
Die of this folly!
Down with him, thief!
That, all-amazed, the priest let fall the book,
He stretch'd him, and, with one hand on his dagger,
Might fire the blood of ordinary men,
salad, or rather, the herb of grace.
Enter LADY CAPULET
Or else thou diest to-morrow.
Affection is not rated from the heart:
out of the court: they cherish it to make it stay
Justice! the law! my ducats, and my daughter!
If thou do this, I'll show thee wondrous things,
What should the people do with these bald tribunes?
man: and then to 'scape drowning thrice, and to be
Is nothing kin to foul redemption.
brother John, this to my Lord of Westmoreland.
sweet sewer.
SCENE I. Forres. The palace.
Does't not go well? Cassio hath beaten thee.
Then take we down his load, and turn him off,
if her breath were as terrible as her terminations,
Enter DOUGLAS
But with my breath I can revive it, boy.
What I have written to you?
Are all unfolded wherein he appears
But gives all gaze and bent of amorous view
Fare thee well, fare thee well.
Forsworn my company and rail'd at me,
Weaves tedious snares to trap mine enemies.
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
To work exceeding miracles on earth.
How! gone!
I put it to your care.
As 'tis to laugh at 'em. My mother, you wot well
Fie, wrangling queen!
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock? and
It must of force.
I'll see that straight.
The king hath note of all that they intend,
continency, sparrows must not build in his
she know me not: if she say I am not fourteen pence
Have we more sons? or are we like to have?
Who then? his spirit?
Truly deliver.
Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance
new ship to purge melancholy and air himself: for,
God and Saint George, Talbot and England's right,
Here is neither cheer, sir, nor welcome: we would
So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus
No, I'll die here.
[Aside]	Then poor Cordelia!
A holy parcel of the fairest dames.
But what thou art, God, thou, and I do know,
Is this the scourge of France?
Now, pray, sir, get you gone:
ACT IV
Have uncheque'd theft. Love not yourselves: away,
But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
He hath not money for these Irish wars,
And this deceit loses the name of craft,
Sirrah, thy lord I honour as he is.
Taught him to face me out of his acquaintance,
Either led or driven, as we point the way,
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
As infants' empty of all thought!
methinks I have given him a penny and he renders me
And wake the emperor and his lovely bride
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
Immediately to leave you and be gone.
And, when thou hast done this chare, I'll give thee leave
With all the nearest things to my heart, as well
And rest your gentle head upon her lap,
And say 'This man's a flatterer?' if one be,
'Thanks, gentle citizens and friends,' quoth I,
like the horse, with a linen stock on one leg and a
Now, by God's will, thou wrong'st him, Somerset,
The news is not so tart.--I'll read, and answer.
That fears his fellowship to die with us.
Their manners are more gentle-kind than of
O, our credit comes not in like the commodity, nor
Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy,
Thou hadst not lived to kill a son of mine.
No, marry, I fear thee!
Exeunt
Accursed be he that seeks to make them foes!
We must not now displease him.
Are brazen images of canonized saints.
Question enrages him. At once, good night:
With several applications, nature and sickness
encounter any such, apprehend him, an thou dost me love.
Exeunt
Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels
The rebels have assay'd to win the Tower.
title age cannot bring thee.
'Tis indeed, madam, we thank the giver.
Enter Outlaws with SILVIA
Which he counts but a trifle.
In arms as sound as when I woo'd, in heart
That had a court no bigger than this cave,
Where when men been, there's seldom ease,
Who is't that goes with me? Beseech your highness,
Shall Master Slender steal my Nan away
A banish'd traitor: all my treasury
As thriftless sons their scraping fathers' gold.
Even in his own garments, and gave himself,
And you!
you farewell.
lie, do, and try whether I am not now a gentleman born.
Come, come, Nerissa, for I long to see
ANTIPHOLUS
I purpose not to wait on fortune till
To be another's fool. I would be gone:
Try what my credit can in Venice do:
Such fierce alarums both of hope and fear,
Welcome, indeed! By Venus' hand I swear,
For a few words.
It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
Thus would I eat it.
Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.
This day's black fate on more days doth depend,
To his most royal person, hither come
Uproar the universal peace, confound
Have hired me to undermine the duchess
We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and
I am sorry, sir, I have thus far stirr'd you: but
That such a thing bechanced would make me sad?
All that was mine in Silvia I give thee.
Yet grace must still look so.
Let me be punish'd, that have minded you
As if he did contemn what he requested
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose,--
I have done penance for contemning Love,
In likeness of a new untrimmed bride.
And thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep,
god, that would not extend his might, only where
well knock'd at first, Then had not Grumio come by the worst.
Should without issue die, he'll carry it so
He lays his breast open: she offers at it with his sword
When midnight comes, knock at my chamber-window:
I grant him part, but then, in his Armenia,
be of what colour it please God. Ha! the prince and
Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
By still dispraising praise valued in you,
whisper o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws.
Hail, most royal sir!
Do on the oak, hive with one winter's brush
before, these weird sisters saluted me, and referred
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
But she, your subject, loathes such sovereignty.
Thy maiden sword.
Carried herself towards me.
Whence camest thou, worthy thane?
Call that same Isabel here once again, I would speak with her.
Exeunt
What dost thou with thy best apparel on?
Let the mark have a prick in't, to mete at, if it may be.
I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
Say on, my loving lord.
Then march to Paris, royal Charles of France,
Gave it a judge's clerk! no, God's my judge,
Courtsied when you have and kiss'd
Even since it could speak, from an infant, freely
Lawn as white as driven snow,
Sneak not away, sir, for the friar and you
more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more
Of the queen's speed, is gone.
That Cassio loves her, I do well believe it,
A dream itself is but a shadow.
in her presence.
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man,
Let him that is a true-born gentleman
The queen your mother, and your brother York,
We do exhibit to your majesty.
Our necessary actions, in the fear
But other of your insolent retinue
saying is, the third pays for all: the triplex,
The fore-end of my time. But up to the mountains!
They know their master loves to be aloft,
What a devil hast thou to do with the time of the
I will marry her, sir, at your request: but if there
When priests are more in word than matter,
'Con tutto il cuore, ben trovato,' may I say.
henceforward, upon pain of death.
Thy kinsman and thy friends, I'll have more lives
That late he married--hath referr'd herself
married un garcon, a boy, un paysan, by gar, a boy,
To break the vow I am engaged in,
should enjoy half his revenue,'--My son Edgar!
To his new kingdom of perpetual rest.
You'll serve another master. I look on you
Fear him not, Caesar, he's not dangerous,
She will not.
Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking daughters,
For which the youthful lover now is gone
And Julia herself hath brought it hither.
Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
Which scorns a modern invocation.
Not trusting to this halting legate here,
Thanks, gentle Somerset, sweet Oxford, thanks.
Patience, thou young and rose-lipp'd cherubin,--
And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
SCENE I. Another part of the island.
O, this will make my mother die with grief!
To sell and mart your offices for gold
The sun of heaven methought was loath to set,
methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face, and I
Do glorify the banks that bound them in,
Your name, sir, truly.
And here's a pot of good double beer, neighbour:
command at all hours.
by and by it will strike.
Look,'when his infant fortune came to age,'
SCENE III. A royal palace.
Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
Take that for your fair lady.
Let's hear it.
But with a heart full of unstained love:
Why, he had none.
e, b, t, not d, e, t: he clepeth a calf, cauf,
Life perfect honour.
If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who
And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
As thus,--to study where I well may dine,
Make head against my estimation!
Is this the Lord Talbot, uncle Gloucester,
That brought her for this high good turn so far?
called Mile-end, to instruct for the doubling of
And wild amazement hurries up and down
The bloody parliament shall this be call'd,
Now, pray you, let me see it, for mine eye,
Sometimes we see a cloud that's dragonish,
treachers, by spherical predominance, drunkards,
takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
Ay, sir.
His father by as much as a performance
Are levying powers: we must straight make head:
forswear arms. The virtue of this jest will be, the
Where Cressid lay that night.
Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound,
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
For sleeping England long time have I watch'd,
Thy meekness saint-like, wife-like government,
Their noise be our instruction. Ladders, ho!
A reason mighty, strong, and effectual,
Re-enter DON PEDRO
These three,
Caesar, I shall.
The field of Golgotha and dead men's skulls.
But it proceeds or comes from them to you
The dominations, royalties and rights
By laboursome petition, and at last
What, with me too, Thersites?
I Pompey am,--
She would to each one sip. You are retired,
We will descend and fold him in our arms.
Re-enter CHARMIAN
I would you did but see how it chafes, how it rages,
No more, I say: if thou dost plead for him,
For where is any author in the world
He says his name is Master Fer.
It is supposed, the fair creature died,
That's a shealed peascod.
To end itself by death? 'Twas yet some comfort,
Will have it thus, my master and my lord
Of dumps so dull and heavy,
To Ireland, Poictiers, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
Come, coz, come, coz, we stay for you. A word with
Thou wilt amend thy life?
how the young folks lay their heads together!
[Aside]  Heaven give thee moving graces!
Patroclus make demands to me, you shall see the
What 'her' is this?
Until my lord's return: for mine own part,
We'll hear, ourselves, again.
That passion cannot rule.
You health. So please you, sir.
Will I first work: he's for his master,
Edward and Clarence. O, what cause have I,
You are well met, sir. You denied to fight with me
'Twas Helicanus then.
Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time
Great Jupiter be praised! Lucius is taken.
such volubility, that you would think truth were a
Good man, sit down. Now let me see the proudest
By their increase, now knows not which is which:
enough in the shoulders, you care not who sees your
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
Because he is protector of the realm,
That ever was survey'd by English eye,
Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a
Friendship is constant in all other things
Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior,
Nor never more in Russian habit wait.
The violence of either grief or joy
The lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece,
As Ariachne's broken woof to enter.
Let him perceive how ill we brook his treason
Youth's a stuff will not endure.
devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh
Go, Philostrate,
till now: two thousand ducats in that, and other
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
Behold the window of my heart, mine eye,
The rest will comfort, for thy counsel's sound.
Had been more merciful. Come on, poor babe:
What, are my doors opposed against my passage?
Percy is but my factor, good my lord,
To do him all the grace and good I could.
those things you found about her, those secret
Of the whole body. The belly answer'd--
I rather would have lost my life betimes
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
Dine with my father, drink a health to me,
I pray you, come, hold up the jest no higher
Father of Warwick, know you what this means?
climb in the merriness.
My frail mortality to know itself,
He is much changed.
Sir, we have a chest beneath the hatches, caulked
Shall fall you for refusing him at sea,
Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself,
Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS, with the rabble
Exeunt
Mean to establish Caesar as a king,
You must know,
The Duke of Suffolk muffled up in rags!
Enter the Lord Mayor and Citizens
Good den, good den.
shall be the last of the next month. Come,
Descend, and keep your words.
The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords
By the worst means, the worst. For mine own good,
Mine host of the Garter!
No,
Than stay, past doubt, for greater:
Re-enter MACDUFF
So he would keep fair quarter with his bed!
Profess'd to him, why, his revenges must
ever and a day.
No, no, no, your son was misled with a snipt-taffeta
For in this sin he is as deep as I.
Lucilius' Servant	Five thousand crowns, my lord.
Away, I say!
Fall fellowly drops. The charm dissolves apace,
What my tongue speaks my right drawn sword may prove.
I prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow,
O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
Caesar, 'tis his schoolmaster:
PROLOGUE
He is, and, see, he brings the mayor along.
But to command, to cheque, to o'erbear such
To speak before your time. Proceed.
What's your name?
So wither'd and so wild in their attire,
Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolation
So be there 'twixt your kingdoms such a spousal,
As is deliver'd to your majesty:
been truth, sir.
The first I warrant thee, if dreams prove true.
Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence,
O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
And in this shape when you have brought him thither,
Great shouts within and all cry 'The mean knight!'
I love thee well, in that thou likest it not.
So may he ever do! and ever flourish,
That he is promised to be wived
to stay within: I like his money well. O, here he comes.
The valiant Caesar!
What, is the king encamped?
One, certes, that promises no element
With sainted vow my faults to have amended.
And then I stole all courtesy from heaven,
runs before her actions.
Your face hath got five hundred pound a year,
Exit
getting wenches with child, wronging the ancientry,
I loved your father, and we love ourself,
From Claudio and the prince: but what's your will?
So I would you did, then 'twere past all doubt
Forget not, in your speed, Antonius,
Those at her father's churlish feet she tender'd,
Enter DIOMEDES
The full cause of our coming.
They say, one Taurus.
And wonder greatly that man's face can fold
Chief factors for the gods, I do not know
Unto his dastard foemen is betray'd.
Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
Enter GADSHILL, BARDOLPH and PETO
If any bark put forth, come to the mart,
And with the deepest malice of the war
Of the sea-water green, sir.
Bring forth men-children only,
almost most absolute Alexas, where's the soothsayer
contemplation of my travels, in which my often
Shall she be placed in my constant soul.
Tut, this was nothing but an argument
And I, most jocund, apt and willingly,
No, none, but only a repair i' the dark,
But weakly guarded, where the breach was made.
SONG
That we may praise thee in the victory!
his rest to do more exploits with his mace than a
Shall stay with us: order for sea is given,
That I should seem to lack humanity
When she, poor hen, fond of no second brood,
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
break their hearts but they will effect. God be
To be the pillage of a giglot wench:'
Is't possible, my lord?
Be quite degraded, like a hedge-born swain
The noble Earl of Suffolk also lies.
A husband and a son thou owest to me,
The deepest loathing to the stomach brings,
Will in that kingdom spend our following days:
In emerald tufts, flowers purple, blue and white,
And shuddering fear, and green-eyed jealousy! O love,
the dog?' 'Ay, marry, do I,' quoth he. 'You do him
As he is but my father's brother's son,
Accept my thankfulness.
To pay that duty which you truly owe
For Hector in his blaze of wrath subscribes
End in a word: such is the breath of kings.
as your gesture cries it out, when your brother
Here comes the almanac of my true date.
See how he fares.
Thou and thy faction shall repent this rape.
On one and other side, Trojan and Greek,
Perjury, perjury, in the high'st degree
But, sirrah, mark, we use
as small as a wand: this hat is Nan, our maid: I
Have patience, sir,
To this effect, Achilles, have I moved you:
And but the backs of Britons seen, all flying
False to thy gods, thy brother, and thy father,
Signior Benedick.
Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!
Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come
a cudgel, and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a
Tincture or lustre in her lip, her eye,
Here are the articles of contracted peace
Poor living corse, closed in a dead man's tomb!
And be avenged on cursed Tamora.
Alarum. Re-enter MESSALA, with BRUTUS, CATO, STRATO, VOLUMNIUS, and LUCILIUS
Caesar, I bring thee word,
But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers,
cast thy humble slough and appear fresh. Be
Caesar must bleed for it! And, gentle friends,
Nay, her foot speaks, her wanton spirits look out
Thou naughty varlet!
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
And torture him with grievous lingering death.
To do offence and scath in Christendom.
Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
can do no more: nay, a horse cannot fetch, but only
No Valentine, indeed, for sacred Silvia.
Exit
I bless the time
Unless I be relieved by prayer,
To give us warrant from the hand of heaven
I had rather have one scratch my head i' the sun
And most chirurgeonly.
Nine changes of the watery star hath been
The helms o' the state, who care for you like fathers,
I knew you not: what news with you so early?
Into your own hands, cardinal, by extortion,
words are grown so false, I am loath to prove
That heaven's vault should crack. She's gone for ever!
Speak within door.
Doubled with thanks and service, from whose help
With this unprofitable woe!
How now, you dog!
Where it seems best unto your royal self.
Bate, I beseech you, widow Dido.
Affection! thy intention stabs the centre:
Which must approve thee honest: 'If Pisanio
'Tis a hard bondage to become the wife
Only to stick it in their children's sight
But yet come not: you are a tame man, go!
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide,
the spirit of putting down kings and princes,
Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,
It turns in less than two nights? O you gods,
What's this? mutton?
By bright Diana, whom we honour, all
To tug and scamble and to part by the teeth
On: those that think it is unlawful business
Conceive, and fare thee well.
Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to 't.
I'll wait upon your lordship.
And by him do my duties to the senate:
hollow: but a good heart, Kate, is the sun and the
behavior of the country is most mockable at the
Hath alter'd that good picture? What's thy interest
Well, farewell, I am in great haste now.
Befitting this first meeting. Welcome, sir,
Thy wife hath dream'd, thy mother hath had visions,
That he may bless this bay with his tall ship,
And let his very breath, whom thou'lt observe,
Little.
Go bear this lance to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk.
this day to look you.
Since we can not atone you, we shall see
I'll end my exhortation after dinner.
And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
Fear you not him. Sirrah Biondello,
So dear I loved the man, that I must weep.
Write from it, if you can, in hand or phrase,
His highness' pleasure is to talk with him.
That acts my words. The younger brother, Cadwal,
Exeunt
Come, sir, what letters had you late from France?
And he is yours, and his must needs be yours:
I have sent Cloten's clotpoll down the stream,
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
The illness should attend it: what thou wouldst highly,
At last, though long, our jarring notes agree:
The manner of it is, I was taken with the manner.
Not like the fruit of such a goodly tree.
be sad. Did he not say, my brother was fled?
Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon.
Disclaiming here the kindred of the king,
Here comes a member of the commonwealth.
I should report this now, would they believe me?
When Fortune in her shift and change of mood
Of blessed sanctuary! not for all this land
By humble message and by promised means:
Pray you, do my commendations, I would be glad to see it.
And not send back my messenger.
What a damned Epicurean rascal is this! My heart is
This was the sport, my lord: when Publius shot,
Hath not deserved my service nor your loves,
Subjects may challenge nothing of their sovereigns,
Who saw Cesario, ho?
And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity?
Exeunt
I was not born a yielder, thou proud Scot,
ale-washed wits, is wonderful to be thought on. But
I am unworthy to be Henry's wife.
out, and give it him.' But there was such laughing!
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That answer might have become Apemantus.
him: it must be a personating of himself, a satire
[Reads]  'The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung
your present to one Master Bassanio, who, indeed,
Bid him repair to me, and bring with him
To do this when I bade thee? Do it at once,
But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
O, we have made a vow to study, lords,
between them.
The mansion where!--'twas at a feast,--O, would
Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea
If we do lose this battle, then is this
Then, lest he may, prevent. And, since the quarrel
For in Baptista's keep my treasure is:
indeed she is given too much to allicholy and
Enter a Messenger
the very next turning, turn of no hand, but turn
I'll mark no words that smooth-faced wooers say:
To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor:
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,
BISHOP
There is indeed, which they would have your grace
The white sheet bleaching on the hedge,
When Caesar's head is off.
Why then preferr'd you not your sums and bills,
they die unprovided, no more is the king guilty of
Here comes the duke.
any, freely give unto you this young scholar,
Is to become her husband and her father:
That love should of a sudden take such hold?
She is fair, and so is Julia that I love--
That troop with majesty. Ourself, by monthly course,
Beg thou, or borrow, to make up the sum,
He shall, sure on't.
Let me pour in some sack to the Thames water, for my
Have a tongue to doom my brother's death,
We are inforced to farm our royal realm,
Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
And my more-having would be as a sauce
Look to the drawbridge there!
it is well allied: but it is impossible to extirp
To do him wrong or any way impeach
He may recover yet.
Whither?
And I will provoke him to't, or let him wag.
fain to go with a staff, but that my puissance holds
Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich
That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus,
I will not re-salute the streets of Rome,
O, let us hence, I stand on sudden haste.
Then I must not say no.
And Henry but usurps the diadem.
His way to Dover.
And leave itself unfurnish'd. Yet look, how far
This says she now when she is beginning to write to
If thy rare qualities, sweet gentleness,
[Aside]  'Tis true, such pearls as put out
That's not so, sir: we are your enemies.
That had nine hours lien dead,
moon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue.
Give you good night.
Do you go back dismay'd? 'tis a lost fear,
what they say of him.
Commonly are, the want of which vain dew
Further than he is Caesar.
And ample interchange of sweet discourse,
If thou wilt fight, fight by thy father's side,
Aged contusions and all brush of time,
Thus will I save my credit in the shoot:
Well, my lord.
State holy or unhallow'd, what of that?
Unto a stranger knight to be so bold:
The mariners say how thou hast disposed
He should have worn the horns on his head.
Pray, then, foresee me one.
And sauced our broths, as Juno had been sick
Nor in thine, lord.
blown up: marry, in blowing him down again, with
Each one already blazing by our meeds,
And golden Phoebus never be beheld
Our musty superfluity. See, our best elders.
come forth?
It is the cause, it is the cause, my soul,--
My boat sails freely, both with wind and stream.
The silence often of pure innocence
A craftier Tereus, cousin, hast thou met,
Why, how now! what does Master Fenton here?
I'll drown more sailors than the mermaid shall,
Thou must not take my former sharpness ill:
She'ld come again, and with a greedy ear
O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself!
Winner and loser?
Because not there: this woman's answer sorts,
entertainest my love, let it appear in thy smiling,
And for this once my will shall stand for law.
Exit, above
With unhack'd swords and helmets all unbruised,
And show'd thee all the qualities o' the isle,
Not in this land shall he remain uncaught,
To be the father unto many sons.
me, I could find in my heart to stay here still and
How!
Casca, by your voice.
clodpole. But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by
Chief architect and plotter of these woes:
Would take no notice, nor build yourself a trouble
Good my lord, bid him welcome: this is the
Queen o'er myself: and even now, but now,
But, my good lord,
I stood not in the smile of heaven, who had
These babes for Clarence weep and so do I,
I be misconstrued in the place I go to,
Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
indeed, only for that cause they have been most
Laud we the gods,
de knight, de lords, de gentlemen, my patients.
QUEEN and Ladies retire
The guard, ho! O, dispatch me!
Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius!
To CAMILLO
To equal mine!--was it not thus? what say you?
Hold, patience!
Or if I might buffet for my love, or bound my horse
What manner of man are you? My lord, I look'd
An unauthorized kiss.
But that you take what doth to you belong,
Very well. Follow that lord, and look you mock him
Be practised well to this, or they'll ne'er do't.
My gracious lord, I come but for mine own.
Ay, marry, must you, for you must understand he goes
By the world,
Before me! look, where she comes.
And prove it too, against mine honour aught,
Which I have given to you?
but the ten meals I have lost, and I'll defy them
A rhyme I learn'd even now
What a caterwauling do you keep here! If my lady
How now, my love! why is your cheek so pale?
But who is here? Lysander! on the ground!
Commend a dear thing to you. There is division,
I will seem friendly, as thou hast advised me.
By giving it the worship of revenge.
They have the gift to know it: and in his brain,
My lord cardinal,
Well, ruffian, I must pocket up these wrongs, Because--
Be one of those that think
This is no witness for Lord Angelo.
Not seen of late? Grant, heavens, that which I fear
My lord, because we have business of more moment,
presently, and swoon for what's to come upon thee.
To BARDOLPH
to purse-taking.
A credulous father! and a brother noble,
O, but they say the tongues of dying men
How now, Sir William! whither were you sent?
Stay, come not in.
Then there is the County Palatine.
Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
So tediously away. The poor condemned English,
As late I have been, I not know: thy pulse
good diet, as I told you,--
matter to alter it. You have an unspeakable
When to her beauty I commend my vows,
Their points being broken,--
O bloody period!
And then I will her charmed eye release
Or break it all to pieces: or there we'll sit,
Not a whit.
Now our sands are almost run,
altogether governed by humours. Lie still, ye thief,
Either you must
How now, my metal of India!
Then let him know, and tell him Timon speaks it,
Made wars upon me, and their contestation
Of all that may concern thy love-affairs.
Against mine uncle.
Go, drag the villain hither by the hair,
if it be well used: exclaim no more against it.
If you swear still, your recompense is still
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife,
a good turn.
Is he married?
Fetch hither all my boxes in my closet.
and his good will obtained: name the day of
Sir Proteus, save you! Saw you my master?
Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow.
All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer,
Be patient, for the prize I'll bring thee to
Enter ARTHUR, on the walls
Her widowhood, be it that she survive me,
Enter ANGELO
And a thousand fragrant posies.
Exit FALSTAFF
Why,
And last eat up himself. Great Agamemnon,
Against our borrowing prayers.
Three foot of it doth hold: bad world the while!
So that you had her wrinkles and I her money,
Dies
How now! what news?
O, whither?
What the devil art thou?
Thyself I call it, being strange to me,
To harder bosoms! Looking on the lines
He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them,
He draweth out the thread of his verbosity finer
Three thousand ducats, well.
Yea, like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish,
pity: yet I'll tarry till my son come, he hallooed
SCENE II. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of,
This is Signior Antonio.
Came they not by you?
We cannot deal but with the very hand
Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
That seeks not to find that her search implies,
Young Bertram.
Shed on the earth, for thy return to Rome:
This, and all else
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all
Two.
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
Puffing at all, winnows the light away,
To see us here unarm'd: I have a woman's longing,
He cares not, he'll obey conditions.
But puts it off to a compell'd restraint,
You see we do, yet see you but our hands
Sheriff, farewell, and better than I fare,
without cause, mistress, do I?
What Cloten's being here to us portends,
For's private friends: his answer to me was,
O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
She has a good face, speaks well, and has excellent
France, I am burn'd up with inflaming wrath,
it into your pocket? the quality of nothing hath
He presently become a Christian,
Ay, Margaret, my heart is drown'd with grief,
He, obedient to their dooms,
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
I shall inform them.
Fie, fie!
All Greek, and this all Troy, my mother's blood
Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man, that
Enter MALCOLM and DONALBAIN
And yet to be afeard of my deserving
Offence of mighty note, but to himself
mocks, I have forgot his name.
Therefore, as you unwind her love from him,
Unless things mortal move them not at all,
He misses not much.
Six frozen winter spent,
Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with
All's well.
What's the unkindest tide?
No, sir, 'tis in grain, Noah's flood could not do it.
Which was, that he, in lieu o' the premises
Alexander. What he bids be done is finished with
Lucius, all hail, Rome's gracious governor!
Passion as they, be kindlier moved than thou art?
It should be thus with him: he must die tomorrow.
How grounded he his title to the crown,
Enter CLIFFORD and YOUNG CLIFFORD
[Aside]	Two truths are told,
He durst not sit there, had your father lived.
Then be it so, and go we to determine
Must be of such unnatural degree,
SCENE VII. A camp, at a small distance from Rome.
Of all this table, say so.
And say 'Tis true,' I'ld not believe them more
Now, by heaven,
Good morrow, Kate, for that's your name, I hear.
Why, sir, I gave the money for the rope.
About it, for it stands me much upon,
For my wounds' sake, to give their suffrage: please you
How chances it they travel? their residence, both
Witness all sorrow, that I know thee well
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
Exit
Think what you will, we seize into our hands
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
And, when my face is cover'd, as 'tis now,
of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you are,
Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you:
Even now about it! I will pardon you.
Than Cleopatra, nor the queen of Ptolemy
What say you, then, to Falconbridge, the young baron
on the score for sheer ale, score me up for the
Here is my hand: you shall from this time be
And tell me how thou hast disposed thy charge.
maintained all by helping Baptista's eldest daughter
Let us entreat you stay till after dinner.
'Tis brief, my lord.
the bolting.
Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit
What say'st thou, Charles? for I am marching hence.
I thank your grace.
Came to my house and took away my ring--
No, no. Come, I am for no more bawdy-houses:
That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell!
You are assembled: and my speech entreats
I'll undertake to land them on our coast
With most gladness:
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts:
and make him my waiting-gentlewoman? He that hath a
Flourish. Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK ANTONY, and LEPIDUS
To stop the foreign spirits, but they come,
I am not a woman, to be touched with so many
More matter, with less art.
Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords:
Kneels
SCENE I. King Lear's palace.
I'll tell thee, Suffolk, why I am unmeet:
Enter LUCIO
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
For certain friends that are both his and mine,
As little prince, having so great a title
Who, not the duke? yes, your beggar of fifty, and
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, and TAURUS, with his army, marching
Take that, until thou bring me better news.
Why, what a king is this!
Exeunt MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE
On whose employment I was sent to you:
And grant, as Timon grows, his hate may grow
And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  What means this?
The lofty cedar, royal Cymbeline,
Exeunt
But then the mind much sufferance doth o'er skip,
That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard,
A huge translation of hypocrisy,
That now I will have: that's the humour of it.
On some apparent danger seen in him
That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am:
Than Buckingham and his rash-levied army.
Sir John affects thy wife.
Re-enter KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
Threaten the threatener and outface the brow
They are not herbs, you knave, they are nose-herbs.
No more, I pray you.
Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
'Shall I bid him go, and spare not?'
his bidding. He wants nothing of a god but eternity
Tell me, my friend, art thou the man that slew him?
An oath is of no moment, being not took
Most barbarous intimation! yet a kind of
To make it known to us.
the love come from her, they say too that she will
Whom have I injured, that ye seek my death?
I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
thee, eat it.
To hang a doubt on, or woe upon thy life!
proportion the losses we have borne, the subjects we
And his own courses will denote him so
say to me now, an I were your very very Rosalind?
This was my wish: 'Be thou,' quoth I, ' accursed,
That can make vile things precious. Come,
What place? what time? what form? what likelihood?
The children live, whose parents thou hast
clap upon you two or three probable lies: but we
Wherein I thee endow'd.
That I shall lose distinction in my joys,
Whilst, in the mildness of your sleepy thoughts,
Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
Than when I parted hence, but still subsisting
Sir, there is especial commission come from Venice
Else could you not have motion, but sure, that sense
name, the which he hath used so long and never paid
And fearing he would rise, he was so virtuous,
Come on, my masters, each man take his stand:
Make boot upon the summer's velvet buds,
Upon the sightless couriers of the air,
Exeunt Guard
foolish extravagant spirit, full of forms, figures,
To answer royally in our defences.
To know the thing I am forbid to know:
Now will we take some order in the town,
The civil citizens kneading up the honey,
O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight,
our element we know nothing. Come down, you witch,
This passes!
The mirror of all courtesy,--
Shake off slumber, and beware:
Sola! where? where?
Those thoughts to me were oaks, to thee like
Of the extreme verge: for all beneath the moon
What, canst not rule her?
Bids them good morrow with a modest smile
ANTIPHOLUS
When many times the captive Grecian falls,
Before her troth-plight: say't and justify't.
Dies
Unless I add, we are honest.
Dear life redeems you. You perceive she stirs:
In their distractions, they now are in my power,
To take them in protection?
At an unusual hour?
But Joan la Pucelle shall be France's saint.
I am hush'd until our city be a-fire,
Good uncle Marcus, see how swift she comes.
He beats thee 'gainst the odds: thy lustre thickens,
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
A handkerchief, which, say to her, did drain
For well I wot the empress never wags
'Faith, he is posted hence on serious matter.
Exit EMILIA
Down with him, down with him!
To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the king,
Enter SATURNINUS and TAMORA, with AEMILIUS, Tribunes, Senators, and others
Hear ye, Yedward, if I tarry at home and go not,
Let not your private discord keep away
SCENE I. Coventry.
with warrant.
This morning, uncle.
Come, come,
But mount you presently and meet with me
not--Cock's passion, silence! I hear my master.
Exit
Farewell, my blood, which if to-day thou shed,
Enter PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH, and MUSTARDSEED
A man of stricture and firm abstinence,
To hug with swine, to seek sweet safety out
And hath shipped me intil the land,
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
A drum, a drum!
But yet I cannot help you.
Then, for the third part of a minute, hence,
Which my dead father did bequeath to me.
reflection should hurt her.
And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike:
Exeunt
God keep me from false friends! but they were none.
Of those physicians that first wounded thee:
No, no, good night: I'll be your fool no more.
Hail!
I know it,
If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
And she is dead, which nothing, but to close
As I weigh grief, which I would spare: for honour,
Exit a Servant
Bear his betroth'd from all the world away.
SCENE II. Field of battle between the British and Roman camps.
What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
For such and so they are--these twenty years
Endure the winter's cold as well as he:
I will example it:
Yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him.
Pardon me, sir, this jewel did she wear,
A king, woe's slave, shall kingly woe obey.
I must needs appear.
Exit
Come, there's no more tribute to be paid: our
O giglot fortune!--to master Caesar's sword,
But surely master, not a rag of money.
I fear, the story of his anger. 'Tis so,
I find myself a traitor with the rest,
Show me now, William, some declensions of your pronouns.
and bitumed ready.
Are made already mothers: by my count,
I am glad on 't. What a fearful night is this!
Modo he's call'd, and Mahu.
My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your majesty.
Say yea to thy desires. A thousand welcomes!
With eye-offending brine: all this to season
Yet, I beseech you,
That is my office, for my father's sake.
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves,'
Enter three or four Lords
You were best call it 'daughter-beamed eyes.'
Her brother is in secret come from France,
after do our work.
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
With all my heart. This fellow I remember,
Re-enter FRANCIS
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
And play the swaggerer, bear this, bear all:
Did that they did in envy of great Caesar,
Pass.
Which never were nor no man ever saw.
As for my sons, say I account of them
[Aside]  Yes, like enough, high-battled Caesar will
We are near Tarsus.
To walk abroad, and recreate yourselves.
Your majesty says very true: if your majesties is
Exit
Why, that's my fortune too, therefore I'll stay.
Ay, marry, will we, sir, and we'll be waited on.
Poor queen! so that thy state might be no worse,
Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes:
Where is thy master, Dromio? is he well?
What answer, sir? when spake I such a word?
I come to fetch you to the senate-house.
Ready.
In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends,
Sweet smoke of rhetoric!
And hardly keeps his men from mutiny,
I am not glad that such a sore of time
And the youth, mistook by me,
Vincetino come of Bentivolii.
O, she that might have intercepted thee,
Thus doth he force the swords of wicked men
Come, therefore, let's about it speedily.
To look into this business thoroughly
called before us. Away with her to prison! Go to,
But now I am past an comforts here, but prayers.
Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
Yourself shall give us counsel. Feed, and sleep:
Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
Thine honour from thy suffering, that not know'st
Here's a stay
My heart laments that virtue cannot live
Where, in a frenzy, in my master's garments,
'Zounds, I bleed still, I am hurt to the death.
borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman and
More than your lord's departure weep not: more's not seen,
But it confounds the breather. He should have lived,
Lord Clifford vows to fight in thy defence:
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Where is the duke my father with his power?
I mean to utter it, or both yourself and me
And take in Toryne? You have heard on't, sweet?
We should by this, to all our lamentation,
our strange sights: he must know 'tis none of your
Dying or ere they sicken.
How may the duke be therewith satisfied,
In the due reverence of a sacred vow
And, gallant Warwick, do but answer this:
All faults I make, when I shall come to know them,
Was this inserted to make interest good?
Anon.
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
Of thy intents desires instruction,
Pre-eminence, and all the large effects
That the bless'd gods, as angry with my fancy,
All in Bohemia's well, this satisfaction
But, as the devil would have it, three misbegotten
A blessed lottery to him.
Look, where the holy legate comes apace,
Then meet me forthwith at the notary's,
files: I would do the man what honour I can, but of
Nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist,
Ere you depart: and thanks to stay and eat it.
It is engender'd in the eyes,
As 'tis reported, for the king had married him
And rather than it shall, I will be free
my every action to be guided by others' experiences:
Than any is in hell.
And browner than her brother.' Are not you
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
This noble isle doth want her proper limbs,
you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon?
What, my lord?
To come! O, give me cord, or knife, or poison,
So many courses of the sun enthroned,
What comfort, man? how is't with aged Gaunt?
Does unmake you. I have given suck, and know
That time and place with this deceit so lawful
Of very reverend reputation, sir,
No, good sweet sir, no, I beseech you, sir: I have
Be sprightly, for you fall 'mongst friends.
What he will do graciously, I will thankfully receive.
Performance shall follow.
off his head presently, and then break into his
This from a dying man receive as certain:
am a Jew, if I serve the Jew any longer.
Marrying my sister that thy mother was,
Your grace may do your pleasure.
The corn o' the storehouse gratis, as 'twas used
Is this your Christian counsel? out upon ye!
ANTIPHOLUS
I would I were a Roman, for I cannot,
ANTIPHOLUS
Doth comfort thee in thy sleep: live, and flourish!
Ay: saw you any thing?
So much besmear it. Pardon me, good lady,
The king is render'd lost.
Not to deny this imposition,
O Pyramus, arise!
What, ho, Mistress Page! come you and the old woman
eyes of Troilus. Ne'er look, ne'er look: the eagles
So, the good horse is mine.
Takes the skull
As soul and body's severing.
For their advantage and your highness' loss.
Because his painted skin contents the eye?
Why, boy, although our mother, unadvised,
Still and contemplative in living art.
And, spite of all the rapture of the sea,
To chase these pagans in those holy fields
And what's the third?
To pluck bright honour from the pale-faced moon,
He breathes, my lord. Were he not warm'd with ale,
Marry, she says that the very same man that
of a saint and the complexion of a devil, I had
And show what we alone must think, which never
Is but a little way above our heads,
When was my lord so much ungently temper'd,
Flourish
he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition.
Exeunt all but Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse
Stand these poor people's friend, and urge the king
This is the tenor of the emperor's writ:
As is the difference betwixt day and night
Is he found guilty?
For wearing our own noses.
Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow-weeds,
sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
Ye should do service. Hark! the trumpets sound,
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
To hold you in perpetual amity,
And either we or they must lower lie.
So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
you had appointed?
Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry Rome?
And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl,
Inconstancy falls off ere it begins.
And rest myself content.
To him again: tell him he wears the rose
slave, strike.
Enter KATHARINE and ALICE
When, Harry, when?
Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke,
Pretty soul! she durst not lie
The higher our opinion, that our stirring
Whilst we were wandering with the antipodes,
[Aside]	It is my mistress:
them, in a slough of mire, and set spurs and away,
O, forget
Besides, our hands are hard.
Which overshades the mouth of that same pit
Here is her father's house, I'll call aloud.
SCENE II. A room in the prison.
Or any he the proudest of thy sort.
Enter SERVILIUS
Where are they?
Is breach of all. I am ill, but your being by me
And after all this fearful homage done,
Or ere I journey to your father's house.
And be in debt to none--yet, more to move you,
Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, PISANIO, Lords, Officers, and Attendants
A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but
Flourish of cornets. Enter PORTIA, with the PRINCE OF MOROCCO, and their trains
him, if he came.
More than my shanks and wrists: you good gods, give me
and old Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of
Or durst not, for his craven heart, say thus.
Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw
this place is too cold for hell. I'll devil-porter
To MARDIAN
but, since it is as it is, mend it for your own good.
Where goes Cesario?
Thou art a robber,
Re-enter LEONATO and ANTONIO, with the Sexton
He goes hence frowning: but it honours us
Say, you chose him
Pray, set it down and rest you: when this burns,
And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
But since you are a gentle convertite,
In their gold coats spots you see,
Haply a woman's voice may do some good,
Men judge by the complexion of the sky
And entertain a cheerful disposition.
O, God's will! much better
no, no, this left shoe is my mother: nay, that
Agree these deeds with that proud brag of thine,
Or may I never--
Your friends are well and have them much commended.
I dare be sworn
Seems, madam! nay it is, I know not 'seems.'
Peace, tender sapling, thou art made of tears,
A base Walloon, to win the Dauphin's grace,
We'll bring your grace e'en to the edge o' the shore,
Re-enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
Enter JULIET
How canst thou thus for shame, Titania,
Exeunt
When I shal l dwell with worms, and my poor name
Come, sir,
To save this brother's life?
Great men,
And full of new-found oaths, which he will break
Leave unsaluted: sink, my knee, i' the earth,
O monstrous! eleven buckram men grown out of two!
Not all the whips of heaven are large enough:
Salutes ye all, this night he dedicates
proclaimed. All offices are open, and there is full
I should have fatted all the region kites
Please you, deliberate a day or two.
Perchance he will not mind me.
Prithee, no more.
of his salvation, the inheritance of it, and cut the
Hath drawn him from his own determined aid,
And cancel these cold bonds. O Imogen!
Why in this woolvish toge should I stand here,
Enter Servant
Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats and pease,
No, no, they were not bound.
That is your part: yet I am advised to do it,
I know not.
Will you go, sister? Shepherd, ply her hard.
Give us some music, and, good cousin, sing.
Would all were well! but that will never be
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Ay, widow? then I'll warrant
You look wearily.
Brother, farewell: I will unto the king,
To admit no traffic to our adverse towns Nay, more,
flannel, ignorance itself is a plummet o'er me: use
Who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet
To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads,
But, sure, he's proud, and yet his pride becomes him:
So common-hackney'd in the eyes of men,
where he is.
Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs,
And like bright metal on a sullen ground,
The cause were not in being,--part o' the cause,
Make tigers tame and huge leviathans
[Reads]
Our own love waking cries to see what's done,
Nell, sir, but her name and three quarters, that's
I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
By the gods, it is one. If I bring you no
Our whole city is much bound to him.
They say you are a melancholy fellow.
There be moe wasps that buzz about his nose
Like motes and shadows see them move awhile,
To do what?
do thou stand in some by-room, while I question my
I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
Thou art the best o' the cut-throats: yet he's good
sanctuary, and people sin upon purpose, because they
What merit's in that reason which denies
Like one besotted on your sweet delights:
Than is his use.
And gave me up to tears.
Enter QUEEN MARGARET
Could not have made this peace.
these signs,
An army cannot rule 'em.
Thou bear'st my life off hence: let us avoid.
Sennet. Exeunt CAESAR and all his Train, but CASCA
Aside
Aumerle that was,
And topping all others in boasting.
What good is cover'd with the face of heaven,
Error i' the bill, sir, error i' the bill.
Upon thy stars, thy fortune and thy strength,
He chides to hell and bids the other grow
I know they do, and I have well deserved it.
peril: I had rather than a thousand pound he were
You, cousin
Of general assault.
You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts
BISHOP
First Serving-man	Ay, and the very parings of our nails
Rather than I would be so vile esteem'd.
I would you were as I would have you be!
Your ignorance, which finds not till it feels,
And to thy worth will add right worthy gains.
I that am cruel am yet merciful,
In thirteen battles Salisbury o'ercame,
Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent,
Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent, or,
I know him to be valiant.
Keep you your word, O duke, to give your daughter,
With Somerset's and Buckingham's ambition,
Do now attend the queen? Since they did plot
Your loss is great, so your regard should be,
For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
What must I say?
And we may soon our satisfaction have
What judgment shall I dread, doing no wrong?
I am a bastard too, I love bastards: I am a bastard
be, I will marry thee, and to that end I have been
Fair payment for foul words is more than due.
What charitable men afford to beggars.
One foot in sea and one on shore,
Your enigma?
Many a man his life hath sold
Have sent thee treasure. Go, live rich and happy,
Nay, ask me if I can refrain from love,
And by and by my master drew on him,
From thee to die were torture more than death:
Ugly and slanderous to thy mother's womb,
To die for't!
I prithee,
till he had both tune and words, which so drew the
Why, how now, long-tongued Warwick! dare you speak?
For the ass to the Jude, give it him:--Jud-as, away!
That comes before his eye. This is a practise
them not handsomely.
DON
To say this boy were like me. Come, sir page,
behavior every where.
Both from thy table, Henry, and thy bed,
Which now suits with it. Whiles I threat, he lives:
As strange as the thing I know not. It were as
So am I purposed.
her passion ends the play.
Fie, brother, fie! teach her not thus to lay
Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?
When in the streets he meets such golden gifts.
word for two pence that you are no fool.
Under your hard construction must I sit,
Threescore and ten I can remember well:
To bring you in again.
ACT IV
chaste as Diana, unless I be obtained by the manner
I will, my lord.
Makes me to ask you for my purse? It grieves me
And the ass more captain than the lion, the felon
To extol what it hath done.
could he dig without arms? I'll put another
such weak breath as this? No, you are deceived,
The winds grow high, so do your stomachs, lords.
If I could pray to move, prayers would move me:
Give him defence against the elements,
And so have I address'd me. Fortune now
What then?
That then I lost for thee, now grant me justice.
Is it even so? begin you to grow upon me? I will
And till it be undoubted, we do lock
But lest you should not understand me well,--
Have you laid fair the bed? Is all things well,
Hubert, away with him, imprison him,
As thou lovest Silvia, though not for thyself,
Of estimation and command in arms.
Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says
beseech your highness, pardon me.
Tell thou the tale: but hadst thou not crossed me,
And set a double varnish on the fame
good parts did you first suffer love for me?
Enter the Lords of the city
For she hath blessed and attractive eyes.
And make imaginary puissance,
Sir, you have saved my longing, and I feed
Are natural breath: but, howsoe'er you have
Go, bid them prepare.
About my moneys and my usances:
And with his troops doth march amain to London,
For being a little bad: so may my husband.
Before thy coming Lewis was Henry's friend.
Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,
name, accuse these men.
Became him like the leaving it, he died
serve him still.
Where, good Mistress Mary?
knave's pate.
Another king! they grow like Hydra's heads:
And by the second hour in the morning
that you should leave me at the White Hart in
Having his ear full of his airy fame,
That there's no maculation in thy heart:
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
My holy sir, none better knows than you
And happiness to his accomplices!
I'll make so bold to call,
That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether
Go to the fellow, good Alexas, bid him
Turn, hell-hound, turn!
And they to him are angels.
Where you shall host: of enjoin'd penitents
Romeo, the hate I bear thee can afford
does those things. Well, God's above all, and there
So the gods preserve thee!
hook--what a plague call you him?
I have it not.
Then talk no more of flight, it is no boot,
How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony's nephew?
Know then, my name is Douglas,
They are devised by you, or else you suffer
Be not enshelter'd and embay'd, they are drown'd:
rendezvous of it.
Becomes not Titus' brother: get thee gone:
And happy always was it for that son
As I by thine a wife: this is a match,
Bid farewell to your sisters.
earned him. Away!
Doth Arthur live? O, haste thee to the peers,
This favour will I do you for his sake,
Enter RATCLIFF, CATESBY following
Do not yourself such wrong, who are in this
Of author's pen or actor's voice, but suited
I would you were set, so your affection would cease.
Are you sick, Hubert? you look pale to-day:
bloody and fatal opposite that you could possibly
Speak and look back, and pry on every side,
Now, tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?
He is called Aunchient Pistol.
Amen. A man may, if he were of a fearful heart,
I will disparage her no farther till you are my
What art thou?
Where is thy lustre now?
Madam, his majesty doth call for you,
Of usance for my moneys, and you'll not hear me:
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east:
Will close the eye of anguish.
Sicinius Velutus, and I know not--'Sdeath!
Marrying a punk, my lord, is pressing to death,
To live a barren sister all your life,
Comes to him, where in gore he lay insteep'd,
Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
You take me in too dolorous a sense,
Off with his son George's head!
To sort our nobles from our common men.
And try your hap against the Irishmen?
Enter ANTIGONUS with a Child, and a Mariner
But with these nails I'll pluck out these false eyes
That to the use of actions fair and good
Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem!' when he should groan,
As begging hermits in their holy prayers:
'Tis more than we deserve, or I expect.
And once fought with him: he was a soldier good,
If he had been forgotten,
So was his will in his old feeble body.
rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich
From thousand dangers, bid him bury it
Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you
No? then I well perceive you all not nigh
And pretty traps to catch the petty thieves.
SCENE I. Bristol. Before the castle.
There's a good grandam.
He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?
care for her frowning, now thou art an O without a
increasing in love,
Lords, take your places, and, I pray you all,
you, la plus belle Katharine du monde, mon tres cher
To our own selves bend we our needful talk.
That they may hold excus'd our lawless lives,
Therefore I do it, and I make no doubt
Brave warriors, Clifford and Northumberland,
And that may be determined at the one
wilt hear me,
great buildings.
Great Troy is ours, and our sharp wars are ended.
Your own desert!
Well I will arm me, being thus forewarn'd:
kindness of our profession, she has me her quirks,
With a refined traveller of Spain,
See him pluck Aufidius down by the hair,
Ay, so I say.
Because I would be sure to have all well,
Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven
By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
Exeunt
Some of my mistress' marks upon my shoulders,
Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO
I'll deny nothing.
To match with her that brings no vantages.
Have by some surgeon, Shylock, on your charge,
Fortune, that arrant whore,
Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
Between the pale complexion of true love
Well done! avoid, no more!
them, item, one neck, one chin, and so forth. Were
If Warwick take us we are sure to die.
Quite to forget this quarrel and the cause.
The king's will be perform'd!
Ay, with these crystal beads heaven shall be bribed
To ope their golden eyes:
Enter DIOMEDES, TROILUS following
I will.
To wilful disobedience, and rebel!
Like graves i' the holy churchyard.
Enter FENTON and Host
A sure and safe one, though thy master miss'd it.
Preys on the issue of his mother's body,
Of my nation! What ish my nation? Ish a villain,
I do beseech you, sir, have patience:
To such a person and in such a place,
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
Royal commanders, be in readiness:
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
as lief have been myself alone.
two tribunes:
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
Exit
And I must to Lorenzo and the rest:
evening. Lord, I could not endure a husband with a
Marry, that did I.
Save mine, which hath desired to see thee more,
Send for the lady to the Sagittary,
Do not, for one repulse, forego the purpose
As if a man were author of himself
not fail her.
So like you, 'tis the worse. Behold, my lords,
Is led on in the conduct of my will,
what remedy? As there is no true cuckold but
Uncle Marcus, since it is my father's mind
Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
Which warp'd the line of every other favour,
Being nothing like the noble duke my father:
Why, Via! to London will we march amain,
Richard cried 'Charge! and give no foot of ground!'
I'll seem the fool I am not, Antony
My heart is with your liking.
Is all the counsel that we two have shared,
And spoil your nobler soul: I say, take heed,
What, are we cuckolds ere we have deserved it?
New come from Padua.
And I will answer unpremeditated:
O, I am slain! My lord, you have one eye left
By'r lady, he is a good musician.
The Nevils are thy subjects to command.
I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen,
troubled with a rheum,
that this is no time to lend money, especially upon
By your eyes' anguish.
And follow'd with the general throng and sweat
I speak not 'be thou true,' as fearing thee,
That Neptune's arms, who clippeth thee about,
maids, and cut off their heads.
Modest as Justice, and thou seem'st a palace
You have done a brave deed. Ere you go, hear this:--
Well, and how?
How I have ever loved the life removed
Much wrong, you bate too much of your own merits:
O, sir, pardon me!
To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion.
How now! what's the news with you?
And am her knight by proof.
You have drawn oaths from him not to stay. You, sir,
Tell him, cavaleiro-justice, tell him, bully-rook.
Or seeming so in skill, cannot or will not
While summer-days do last. Ay me! poor maid,
Than stand uncover'd to the vulgar groom.
A most auspicious star, whose influence
Lady mine, proceed.
You will not bail me, then, sir?
Madam, it is.
Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong,
And smooth my way upon their headless necks,
They would not thread the gates. This kind of service
Come, let's do so:
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
To the Tribunes
That can such sweet use make of what they hate,
Exeunt
I'll send some holy bishop to entreat,
Exit Messenger
The third son, Duke of Clarence, from whose line
And then to Rome. Come, Dolabella, see
Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick,
Yes, an't please you, sir.
And that beyond commission, and I find it,
Hoy-day, what a sweep of vanity comes this way!
Then fairly I bespoke the officer
You may do so, but let it be so hasted that supper
Where's the lord governor?
A whoreson beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave!
'Tis a vile thing to die, my gracious lord,
Advanced their eyelids, lifted up their noses
No, no, no such matter, you are wide: come, your
I cannot love him: let him send no more,
They say that Love hath not an eye at all.
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
My body up to shame.
and keep place together than the Hundredth Psalm to
He is a friend.
Have some unhappy passenger in chase.
I must with haste from hence.
That cannot be, the noise of thy cross-bow
Caesar refused the crown that it had almost choked
SCENE II. Corioli. The Senate-house.
Excellent wench, say I.
But have been waked by his timorous dreams.
With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls
Soon kindled and soon burnt, carded his state,
defend my wiles, upon my secrecy, to defend mine
I hope he is, but yet let mothers doubt.
DON
With winged haste to the lord marshal,
Of Caesar seek your honour, with your safety. O!
A parlous knock, and it cried bitterly:
Antony only, that would make his will
'Zounds, sir, you're robb'd, for shame, put on
May justly diet me. I pray you yet,
And by whose help I mean to chastise it.
'O sir,' says answer, 'at your best command,
His bloody brow! O Jupiter, no blood!
I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
This is a brave fellow.
'Tis no less, I tell you, for the bawdy hand of the
And he hath sent for thee: for the queen,
And take my milk for gall, you murdering ministers,
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain.
Wherefore this ghastly looking?
glosses, being rather new-dyed than stained with
Thy state is the more gracious, for 'tis a vice to
Thus Suffolk hath prevail'd, and thus he goes,
To use our utmost  studies in your service.
The origin and commencement of his grief
But who is with him?
Here's a few flowers, but 'bout midnight, more:
Exeunt
Does challenge much respect. Come, Desdemona,
Marry. God forbid!
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
In nature's infinite book of secrecy
Beat--
Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
Enter FRANCIS
Sirs, take up the corse.
And what may follow,
Though it appear a little out of fashion,
As a tired horse, a railing wife,
Such men as he be never at heart's ease
They draw
Forgive them what they have committed here
We will for Ireland, and 'tis time, I trow:
Dies
As I am now unhappy, which is more
Or that we women had men's privilege
And suffer not dishonour to approach
Thou dost then wrong me, as that slaughterer doth
Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear:
And this is Trojan, the sinews of this leg
Enter SCARUS
You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
My sweet ounce of man's flesh! my incony Jew!
To grim Necessity, and he and I
What is't thou canst demand?
Most goddess-like prank'd up: but that our feasts
Against your peace. Thee of thy son, Alonso,
Prejudicates the business and would seem
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
And even with such-like valour men hang and drown
Come on, sirrah, hold up your head, answer your
Slave, I have set my life upon a cast,
His well-proportion'd beard made rough and rugged,
Are made thy chief afflictions. Alas, kind lord!
christen could be better bit than I have been since
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
The raven chides blackness.
Or both dissemble deeply their affections:
There is my gage, the manual seal of death,
The state of your affection, for your passions
And he, and more
By my troth, I'll tell thee, I am almost sick for
scurvy, lousy knave, God pless you!
Ay, but thou talk'st as if thou wert a king.
Re-enter TAMORA, with Attendants, TITUS ANDRONICUS, and Lucius
Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt,
Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
That, though I want a kingdom, yet in marriage
It were dishonour to deny it her.
In truth, la, go with me, and I'll tell you
But partly led to diet my revenge,
The gods begin to mock me. I, that now
But let my favours hide thy mangled face,
And put the Englishmen unto the sword:
I warrant you, he's the man should fight with him.
virgins might blow up men?
Exit Tailor
Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear
Not altogether so:
Exeunt all but TITUS
That was the way to make his godhead wax,
Pray now, no more: my mother,
to my mistress.
I am loath to tell you what I would you knew.
But were we burdened with like weight of pain,
Enter KING RICHARD II and Guard
They set him free without his ransom paid,
The tyrant custom, most grave senators,
mayor's sword borne before us.
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD
Lord mayor, the reason we have sent--
At the twelvemonth's end
Your mother too:
years' health, in which time I will make a lip at
Striking RODERIGO
And all cry, Hector! Hector's dead! O Hector!
She is,
Clean over-blown, themselves, the conquerors.
Is Paris lost? is Rouen yielded up?
Father, what news? what is the prince's doom?
Of thy first fight, I soon encountered,
And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
For poor'st diminutives, for doits, and let
Ill, when you talk of war.
moved my lord on his behalf, and hope all will be well.
speak with you, and be acquainted with you, and hath
Were now the general of our gracious empress,
Give mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more.
My oracle, my prophet! My dear cousin,
Arm! arm! the enemy doth make assault!
Well, sir.
Kills me to look on't. Let there be no honour
Let him die: sheathe thy impatience, throw cold
Caesar, I shall.
Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.
Accept distracted thanks.
Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women,
I would not have thee linger in thy pain: So, so.
Most often do so near the bottom run
A privilege never to see me more.
Enter a Messenger
Their clearer reason. O good Gonzalo,
Marina was she call'd, and at her birth,
I see the trick on't: here was a consent,
Than Edward will for tidings of my death.
Under the colour of his usual game,
I am amazed at your passionate words.
O Desdemona! Desdemona! dead!
Methinks it is like a weasel.
That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
Such and such pictures, there the window, such
To justice, continence and nobility,
Indeed!
Make not, sir,
Alencon, and an enemy to our person, if thou
Prithee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius,
And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!
SCENE III. Brutus's tent.
Thou shall be waking well I shed thy blood,
The noble Percy slain, and all his men
Tell you, I do not, nor I cannot love you?
The which immediacy may well stand up,
he fell. When he came to himself again, he said,
And then grace us in the disgrace of death,
'The hobby-horse is forgot.'
Turns to restraint. Our natures do pursue,
Sit fas aut nefas, till I find the stream
Aside
Weary se'nnights nine times nine
To be unbent when thou hast ta'en thy stand,
I thank you, gentle uncle. O, my lord,
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and MENENIUS
nether-stocks.
A little of that worthy work perform'd
And Portia one, there must be something else
Hold your hands,
He did arrest me with an officer.
From where he circumscribed with his sword,
cannot be that Desdemona should long continue her
Most noble lord,
Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
Prince Troilus, I have loved you night and day
Investing lank-lean, cheeks and war-worn coats
If sight and shape be true,
Of these events at full. Let us go in,
What is't you say?
bride goes to that with shame which is her way to go
commendations to you too: and let me tell you in
might see from far some forty truncheoners draw to
This and much more, much more than twice all this,
That breath fame blows, that praise, sole sure,
Or bring him off: fate, hear me what I say!
I will bestow him, and will answer well
Bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny,
I have one heart, one bosom and one truth,
Because Cassandra's mad: her brain-sick raptures
Richard, that robb'd the lion of his heart
Made good the passage, cried to those that fled,
gold, wrought with flowers, bearing QUEEN
Met in the vale of Andren.
Shall for itself itself perform.
I shall remember this bold language.
Or by some other.
I charge thee in the princes name, obey.
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves,
New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
That with his peremptory 'shall,' being but
Ha! little honour to be much believed,
Tedious it were to tell, and harsh to hear:
man in Athens.
The holy water from her heavenly eyes,
make them bleed, and then to beslubber our garments
but chiefly a villanous trick of thine eye and a
For he is, sure, i' the island.
We cannot but obey
Where Juliet lives, and every cat and dog
As in a Romish stew and to expound
What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?
And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best
Lest men should say 'Look, where three-farthings goes!'
mind is: Why give him gold enough and marry him to
Thy fortune, York, hadst thou been regent there,
Our pastimes done, possess a golden slumber,
When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
Lord Say, the traitors hate thee,
And leave the world no copy.
My lord, in truth, thus far I witness with him,
And not endure all threats? sleep upon't,
Peace!
my simple true judgment, or would you have me speak
Will this content you, Kate?
Now sways it that way, like the selfsame sea
Marry, sir, to bid my old master the
I said before, that which is the strength of their
He straight declined, droop'd, took it deeply,
He closes with you in this consequence,
O, no, he goes into Mauritania and takes away with
No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.
Lend me your hand.
Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st,
seek not to alter me.
His bounty overplus: the messenger
I'll take her to my guard.
And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away,
Farewell, my lord.
Nay, I will win my wager better yet
Into a strumpet's fool: behold and see.
Yet now they fright me. There is one within,
in one poor man, Pompion the Great, sir.
the king, his crown and dignity, thou hast built a
And yet it is not that I bear thee love,
What, wilt thou not? Where is that devil's butcher,
And I the rather wean me from despair
o' the way?
Exeunt REIGNIER and MARGARET
The King is sickly, weak and melancholy,
So:
I do beseech you.
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
I wish I could be made so many men,
And dangerous success of bloody wars,
I hear your grace hath sworn out house-keeping:
a man born in April.
goose: but all's brave that youth mounts and folly
To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seat
'Fore all the Greekish heads, which with one voice
Peaseblossom.
But who was this?
under her horse, thou shouldst have heard in how
A shadow like an angel, with bright hair
On the poor souls for whom this hungry war
Because you are not sad. Now, by two-headed Janus,
ACT IV
The queen is coming with a puissant host,
For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.
That she will light to listen to the lays,
Under an oak, whose boughs were moss'd with age
Till candles and starlight and moonshine be out.
I would not lose the dog for twenty pound.
Our free hearts each to other.
Just and upright, and, for your royal birth,
So she does any thing, though I report it,
Achilles, Achilles is my lord, I am Patroclus'
How London doth pour out her citizens!
What would she have?
Unto the commons whom thou hast misled,
The crown, usurp'd, disgraced his kingly glory.
This carol they began that hour,
present at his examination: if he do not, for the
To stay the providence of some high powers
Who do you speak to, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
Look in the calendar, and bring me word.
and to detract. If all the wine in my bottle will
bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine
You speak not like yourself, who ever yet
Humbly complaining to her deity
Whereto our health is bound, we are not ourselves
They that of late were daring with their scoffs
Proposed for the deserver! O gentle Pandarus,
you to gratify the table with a grace, I will, on my
I say thou liest, Camillo, and I hate thee,
Nor shall not, whilst 'tis in my custody.
You must consider that a prodigal course
Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
Exeunt
But cast their gazes on Marina's face,
Making them women of good carriage:
and, having flown over many knavish professions, he
Must wear your spirits low, we cannot help it:
To stay him from the fall of vanity:
For my part, I may speak it to my shame,
followers, whose condemnation is pronounced. So far
One that gives out himself Prince Florizel,
So.
The emptier ever dancing in the air,
I see, sir, you have found the goldsmith now:
For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
And me they left with those of Epidamnum.
Hail, noble Marcius!
The inclining Desdemona to subdue
For I am sorry that with reverence
Ah, woe is me for Gloucester, wretched man!
And in the wood, a league without the town,
My truth and honour firmly.
Of my success.
Your grace shall pardon me, I will not back:
If ever love had interest in his liver,
ANTIPHOLUS
Welcome! one mess is like to be your cheer:
And women too, but innocent and pure,
We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,
This child was prisoner to the womb and is
A howling monster: a drunken monster!
It is, such crimson tempest should bedrench
Either forbear,
Me to proclaim the truth, and I am come,
Away! vexation almost stops my breath,
Come pat betwixt too early and too late
They know your grace hath cause and means and might,
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse to the Priory
The keeper of the prison, call to him,
Is an arm'd knight that's conquer'd by a lady,
The cares I give I have, though given away,
The burthen of my sorrows fall upon ye.
Enter FASTOLFE
Day, my lord.
Reads
If wars, we are unable to resist.
To your good prayers will scarcely say amen.
To hear and see her plaints, her brinish tears.
She shall, Lucentio. Come, gentlemen, let's go.
Is this the fashion in the court of England?
A Roman sworder and banditto slave
He dies that touches any of this fruit
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
Halts not particularly, but moves itself
And out of her own goodness make the net
Thy school-days frightful, desperate, wild, and furious,
And let's be red with mirth.
Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so,
That I should fear to die? Therefore proceed.
With wings more momentary-swift than thought.
And hugg'd me in his arm, and kindly kiss'd my cheek,
invited you all. I tell him we shall stay here at
Madam, in good health.
He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop,
I mean thou shalt, we'll bar thee from succession,
I said the deer was not a haud credo, twas a pricket.
Or wring redress from you. Hear me, O hear me, here!
It is not his, my lord, here Southam lies:
Mark you this, people?
SCENE I. France. Before Angiers.
And Henry, though he be infortunate,
ACT V
For your desire to know what is between us,
their limbs whole and hack our English.
Triumphant death, smear'd with captivity,
Has crept too near another lady.
These are my ministers, and come with me.
When as I sat in Pabylon--
I cannot be so partial, Goneril,
Under your promised pardon. The subjects' grief
I'll make him find him: do this suddenly,
Give me thy glove, soldier: look, here is the
Be cheerful, Richmond, for the wronged souls
A linguist and a man of such perfection
To the king's danger. Presently the duke
To see him kiss his hand! and how most sweetly a'
Oh, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste
my table so many meals? Come, what's Agamemnon?
Wouldst have me kneel? first let me ask of these,
And bid Bianca make her ready straight,
Never, before this day, in all his life.
Come, come, we are friends: let's have a dance ere
Four feasts are toward.
Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,
One horse, my lord, he brought even now.
Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
is sooner caught than the pestilence, and the taker
Than greatness going off.
be slow in words is a woman's only virtue: I pray
One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me.
Most free in his reply.
In what he did profess, well found.
The mouse ne'er shunn'd the cat as they did budge
Alarum. Enter AENEAS
Good morrow to you both.
three and twenty. Go thy way, Troilus, go thy way!
But since you come too late of our intents,
Are yours, my lord: I give them with this ring,
Cowards father cowards and base things sire base:
And I have horse will follow where the game
He'll think anon it lives.
you.
If it be so, yet bragless let it be,
In asking their good loves, but thou wilt frame
Cry, Trojans, cry! a Helen and a woe:
His honour and the greatness of his name
bestraught: here's--
When he stands where I am and sees you there.
There's none within.
By no means what?
Than to entreaty.
To prove, by wit, worth in simplicity.
In daily thanks, that gave us such a prince,
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV in triumph, with GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and the rest
Hugh Capet also, who usurped the crown
Glory is like a circle in the water,
Exeunt
I fear me, love, if that I had been dead,
Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies,
Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune,
Exeunt
To her foul-tainted flesh!
Is touch'd corruptibly, and his pure brain,
hath ta'en his bow and arrows and is gone forth to
But soon that war had end, and the time's state
Fellow, where goest?
You perceive my mind?
Faith, I do: her father bequeathed her to me, and
Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath:
My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
for their sakes, more than the villanous inconstancy
How easy is it, then! Your constancy
eloquence, nor I have no cunning in protestation,
Even in these honest mean habiliments:
Creep in our ears: soft stillness and the night
Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart,
For these deep shames and great indignities.
Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any
He asks of you, that never used to beg.
You say true, 'tis so, indeed: if such tricks as
gentleman, you shall, if you will, enjoy Ford's wife.
Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
When you have done, we look to hear from you.
Nor suffer others.
A thing of pity!
No question.
To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty,
And crows are fatted with the murrion flock,
How does my old acquaintance of this isle?
Dost thou not know?
And keep your mind, till you return to us,
save your word.
A most unnatural and faithless service!
I could not but by her. The other motive,
Let's dry our eyes: and thus far hear me, Cromwell,
To part with unhack'd edges, and bear back
Enter HENRY PERCY
Worse than the worst, content.
food for thee.
If ever I were wilful-negligent,
Consider of it.'
Both, both, my girl:
not for his counsellor. You are not young, no more
Enter a Guardsman
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes:
As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest band
Affliction alters.
I will baffle Sir Toby, I will wash off gross
Fill'd it with cursing cries and deep exclaims.
not, but thy intercepter, full of despite, bloody as
Art thou gone so? I do but stay behind
Lend me your knees, and all my life to come
By gar, me dank you for dat: by gar, I love you,
Than I to your highness, who, being born your vassal,
Exit
And, which is more, she is not so divine,
for he both pleases men and angers them, and then
after my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex?
These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
two of the house of the Montagues.
If it be fond, call it a woman's fear,
Why, then, let a soldier drink.
That in civility thou seem'st so empty?
but as there is no more plenty in it, it goes much
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
To any tongue, speak it of what it will.
Into my story: say 'Thus, mine enemy fell,
that gives it. Let no assembly of twenty be without
And every true heart weeps for't: all that dare
Friend, we understand not one another: I am too
hours since, and he was ever precise in
That an invisible instinct should frame them
Enter ACHILLES
I dare not say he lies any where.
fear and danger, that his personal return was
That dignifies the renown of a bawd, no less than it
That.
SCENE II. Another room in the same.
Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman
Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite,
Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
When great things labouring perish in their birth.
Here, so please you.
you to suspend your indignation against my
Here PROCULEIUS and two of the Guard ascend the  monument by a ladder placed against a window, and,  having descended, come behind CLEOPATRA. Some of the Guard unbar and open the gates
Pardon, dear father.
O sir, such a life, with such a wife, were strange!
Might have been mine! only I have left to say,
Whose repetition will be dogg'd with curses,
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks,
venture so.
King John, your king and England's doth approach,
me yare, for truly, sir, for your kindness I owe you
And, in good time, here the lieutenant comes.
For your fair safety, so, I kiss your hand.
Keep in your bosom: yet remain assured
Shows like a riotous inn: epicurism and lust
Not to be gone from hence, for once I read
every trade, we shall never prosper.
In that same place thou hast appointed me,
believe thee,
So much as but to prop him?
Well, call forth, call forth.
Happily, amen!
because they say, ''Od's nouns.'
homewards. Good sir, go with us.
Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn.
Ambitious Warwick, let thy betters speak.
ACT IV
An Ate, stirring him to blood and strife,
I am no traitor.
Instruction, manners, mysteries, and trades,
Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
you now to your gossip-like humour: you break jests
Farewell! a long farewell, to all my greatness!
Than those she placeth highest! So, farewell.
So far forth as herself might be her chooser,
Her heart inform her tongue,--the swan's
For such disguise as haply shall become
SCENE III. The same.
Away, unpeaceable dog, or I'll spurn thee hence!
Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue, so your face
moves like an engine, and the ground shrinks before
Alarum continues still afar off
Shall remain!
Of what is past.
Hungary's!
See how the surly Warwick mans the wall!
'Tis known to you he is mine enemy,
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
But I will keep her ignorant of her good,
The little strength that I have, I would it were with you.
Anon becomes a mountain. O noble Dauphin,
Be by my friends in Spain advised, whose counsel
And only hitherward. I leave your honours.
A good old man, sir, he will be talking: as they
Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
Drum. Enter BRUTUS, LUCILIUS, LUCIUS, and Soldiers, TITINIUS and PINDARUS meeting them
Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
the supportance of his vow, he protests he will not hurt you.
O undistinguish'd space of woman's will!
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
My prophecy is but half his journey yet,
time has yet to come that she was ever respected
Of 'Came' and 'saw' and 'overcame: ' with shame--
From Fife, great king,
you say honestly.
Yea, on his part I'll empty all these veins,
king, and cat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
Come, go with me.
When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,
'Tribunes!' 'Patricians!' 'Citizens!' 'What, ho!'
That without desert have frown'd on me,
We shall hear music, wit and oracle.
[Within]                Let her come in.
It is the part of men to fear and tremble,
Nor can one England brook a double reign,
Yet left in heaven as small a drop of pity
executed: I think we do know the sweet Roman hand.
Exeunt
Nay, but the devil take mocking: speak, sad brow and
The circle of my glory.
their villany goes against my weak stomach, and
Of one that loved not wisely but too well,
Thy loss is more than can thy portage quit,
And every tongue brings in a several tale,
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
Those things I bid you do, get them dispatch'd.
should be like the case!
part, I must needs confess, I have received some
therefore blessed? No: as a walled town is more
dull tribunes,
Art thou so hasty? I have stay'd for thee,
Even in the matter of mine innocence,
Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well?
That died in honour and Lavinia's cause.
That ever holds: who riseth from a feast
Look bleak i' the cold wind: withal, full oft we see
Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,
As to vouchsafe one glance unto the ground.
Leave hollaing, man: here.
My being in Egypt, Caesar,
What I desire to give, and much less take
Ay, and what I do too: look thee, I'll but lean,
To her, Kate!
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
And then return lamenting to my love.
Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips,
The gods defend him from so great a shame!
But for Achilles, mine own searching eyes
Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
Which was when I perceived thee--that thou camest
And prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
This she delivered in the most bitter touch of
There is besides in Roderigo's letter,
That were excusable, that, and thousands more
are prevented.
But when I swear, it is irrevocable.
'Twill out, 'twill out: I peace!
any of your words? I have seen you gleeking and
Well contented.
ACT IV
The images of revolt and flying off.
This little abstract doth contain that large
Look, when he fawns, he bites, and when he bites,
'For,' quoth the king, 'an angel shalt thou see,
The honour is sacred which he talks on now,
And on to-morrow, bid them march away.
Exeunt CLITUS, DARDANIUS, and VOLUMNIUS
To enforce the pained impotent to smile.
But, O, how oddly will it sound that I
thee straight,
And therefore frolic: we will hence forthwith,
Apemantus, if it lay in thy power?
Nay, hear them, Antony:
That I protest I simply am a maid.
His words were these: that Richard, Duke of York,
We will afflict the emperor in his pride.
Ah, my sour husband, my hard-hearted lord,
I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
Still lamenting and mourning for Suffolk's death?
No chance may shake it. Give me grace to lay
Doth not thy embassage belong to me,
Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense,
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, attended
Ay, to me,
You were the duke's surveyor, and lost your office
For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail
As is the spring to the earth. And hath he too
That's Antenor: he has a shrewd wit, I can tell you,
O slaves, I can tell you news,-- news, you rascals!
Embarquements all of fury, shall lift up
How? out of tune on the strings?
What are you here that cry so grievously?
With a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers,
By all that's holy, he had better starve
Your lordship to accept.
It is a rupture that you may easily heal: and the
By indirections find directions out:
For, having such a blessing in his lady,
That capability and god-like reason
Then give me leave to read philosophy,
Lords of the wide world and wild watery seas,
Was borne so like a soldier, that thy cheek
With what addition?
I go. Come, Nell, thou wilt ride with us?
deed and word? is it a true thing?
Ay, there it is.
other: and she bade me tell your worship that her
I made to it, to know of whence you are.
What God will have discover'd for revenge,
and patient churchman. You must go with me, master doctor.
I thank your worship. For mine own part, I never
Have with you.
Even this ill night, your breathing shall expire,
To second Proculeius?
As 'twere a careless trifle.
He cried to me, I saw him prisoner,
In short and musty straw? Alack, alack!
Take thou thy Silvia, for thou hast deserved her.
Is she kind as she is fair?
'Tis such another fitchew! marry a perfumed one.
At heel of that, defy him.
If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away!
The world's a huge thing: it is a great price.
I take no heed of thee, thou'rt an Athenian,
Produce the grand sum of his sins, the articles
'scape.
the king's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
her brother thus? I am sure care's an enemy to life.
O, sir, the conceit is deeper than you think for:
They are all perceived without ye.
out of all hooping!
Hark! by the sound of drum you may perceive
sit, sit. The gods require our thanks.
He's a traitor.
Caesar and Lepidus
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
ACT V
With poisonous spite and envy.
Enter CASSIO, and certain Officers with torches
You are not ignorant, all-telling fame
Show!
I know the knight is incensed against you, even to a
With twenty thousand kisses, and to drain
in a retreat he outruns any lackey, marry, in coming
Sir Edward Courtney, and the haughty prelate
If wives do fall: say that they slack their duties,
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
Dieu vous garde, monsieur.
Alack, too weak the conflict to support!
Where should he find it fairer than in Blanch?
with him, hurt him in eleven places: my niece shall
Peering in maps for ports and piers and roads,
Exit, guarded
If with myself I hold intelligence
Not I	pray you, what are they?
Me rather had my heart might feel your love
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
To let him spend his time no more at home,
And temperately proceed to what you would
My sovereign mistress clouded so, without
A thousand irreligious cursed hours,
So was I bid report here to the state
As that same ague which hath made you lean.
Cuts off TITUS's hand
And you, sir, to outlive the age I am,
Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,
Exit Messenger
What dream'd my lord? tell me, and I'll requite it
For, bear ourselves as even as we can,
A trumpet sounds
What's past and what's to come she can descry.
Thersites is a fool to serve such a fool, and
To whom?
Tell me, I beseech you, which is the readiest way
Begin your suits anew, and sue to him.
Now, youthful Troilus, do not these high strains
digested. You stayed well by 't in Egypt.
I do, truly, for thou swearest to me thou art
Their several counsels they unbosom shall
Will soon be drawn to head, from whence he moves
The state takes notice of the private difference
Might stand peerless by this slaughter.
And seem a saint, when most I play the devil.
Of shame seen through thy country, speed
thrusts me himself into the company of three or four
Forgetting, like a good man your late censure
If not, bleed France, and peace ascend to heaven,
Than when thou wert protector to thy King.
Well, sir, what follows?
Next, your son gone, and he most violent author
To good or bad.
And wash their hands in Bassianus' blood.
should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away
As amply and unnecessarily
That made the air unwholesome, when you cast
Hail, Caesar, and my lord! hail, most dear Caesar!
O, me alone! make you a sword of me?
By throwing it on any other object
Yet he loves himself: is't not strange?
Be not offended, dear Cesario.
But on mine honour dare I undertake
I bade her come. What, lamb! what, ladybird!
Unregister'd in vulgar fame, you have
Exit
When did the tiger's young ones teach the dam?
would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard
What, for a counter, would I do but good?
Because the law hath ta'en revenge on them.
To fair Bianca, so beloved of me.
Do not run away.
Near and on speedy foot, the main descry
Is utterly bereft you, all is lost.
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
Dispatch, the limit of your lives is out.
Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too,
It is our safety, and we must embrace
Gone to seek his dog, which tomorrow, by his
Fly, therefore, noble Cassius, fly far off.
The thickest and the tallest! it is so, truth is truth.
sore with shooting.
One minute, nay, one quiet breath of rest.
That it's had it head bit off by it young.
That he thereby may give a likely guess
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
Enter FORD
Scotland hath will to help, but cannot help,
Wear gold: and no man that hath a name,
Shall be the label to another deed,
A closet lock and key of villanous secrets
Sir,
Not only with what my revenue yielded,
To send them to you, only for this night,
Are such allow'd infirmities that honesty
Youth, you have done me much ungentleness,
That are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly
Exeunt
Will have it so. On, lord, we'll follow you.
The good old man would fain that all were well,
Speak, Lavinia, what accursed hand
I have, and I will hold, the quondam Quickly
Over whom, in time to come, I hope to reign,
to that nourishment which is called supper: so much
Richard of Bordeaux, by me hither brought.
Nobler than that it covers: let thy effects
Sleep sound:
I see into thy end, and am almost
He uses his folly like a stalking-horse and under
I cannot too much muse
God bless you, sir!
Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud,
discourse, of great admittance, authentic in your
Let him bless thee too.
That many have their giddy brains knock'd out:
the moon! A most poor credulous monster! Well
Was the first motive that I woo'd thee, Anne:
My ashes, as the phoenix, may bring forth
Helping her
as well drawn as his, no less young, more strong,
Trust to't, thou shalt not--on thy mother's womb,
How will this fadge? my master loves her dearly,
Thus did I keep my person fresh and new,
Come, tears, confound,
You would not do me thus much injury.
Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side:
And will they so? the gallants shall be task'd,
I'll warrant they'll have him publicly shamed: and
clap him and hiss him, according as he pleased and
Whom thou hast poison'd too:
torment the poor lady worse.
I remember him well, and I remember him worthy of
Sirrah, come hither: 'tis no time to jest,
But in mistaking.
Of ashy semblance, meagre, pale and bloodless,
To pluck away their power, as now at last
I never knew him otherwise.
We will, my noble lord.
How sure you are my daughter. But, what music?
Where never Roman shall take note of him.
quarrel on the seventh cause?
The tediousness and process of my travel:
Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot
As easily 'gainst our rocks: for joy whereof
Her sceptre so fantastically borne
SCENE II. A street.
I thought it was a fault, but knew it not,
Where's our general?
March gently on to meet him.
Let me be umpire in this doubtful strife.
When with your blood you daily paint her thus.
And cannot lose your way.
That it alone is high fantastical.
And spread they shall be, to thy foul disgrace
To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes
The cardinal is the end of this.
What, man! ne'er pull your hat upon your brows,
I will have this: whose was it?
I'll to the doctor: he hath my good will,
An age of discord and continual strife?
As if you were dismay'd: be cheerful, sir.
On him so near us? This needs must be a practise.
And danger serves among then!
about matters they were not able to answer.
I beseech your honour,
That keeps you in the house, and not your own.
Exit
In peace, to his utmost peril.
It comes in charity to thee: for all thy living
'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together,
I am disgraced, impeach'd and baffled here,
[Aside]  If it be a sin to make a true election, she
[Aside]  But methinks he should stand in fear of
With both the humours, I:
Here, master: what cheer?
and broke three of his ribs, that there is little
--send him by your two men to Datchet-mead.
I know not.
He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not,
They may, 'cum privilegio,' wear away
How he's employ'd: he shall in time be ready.
Who, I? alas, it is my vice, my fault:
Requires slow pace at first: anger is like
I marvel thy master hath not eaten thee for a word,
MISTRESS PAGE and MISTRESS FORD come forward
With plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads,
Falstaff as he will chafe at the doctor's marrying
And never, whilst I live, deceive men so:
Cover your heads and mock not flesh and blood
Remaineth nought, but to inter our brethren,
To say what good respect I have of thee.
Needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds,
Is wretchedness deprived that benefit,
You are, and do not know't:
That, as a duck for life that dives,
Great is his comfort in this earthly vale,
Aged sir, hands off.
Divide me like a bribe buck, each a haunch: I will
Well, may you see things well done there: adieu!
Because I love him I must pity him.
He will be here, and yet he is not here:
My countrymen,--
I charge you, as you hope to have redemption
But learn my lessons as I please myself.
Not so, neither, but I am resolved on two points.
Kill'd her, for whom my tears have made me blind.
blind bow-boy's butt-shaft: and is he a man to
Why, this is not a boon,
Let's stand close, and behold him.
Or touch of her good person?
All punish'd in the person of this child,
As firmly as yourself were still in place:
And lived by looking on his images:
Well, sir, we must have you find your legs. Sirrah
Go do it instantly.
To say thou dost not: therefore tell me true,
And see where comes the breeder of my sorrow!
others how they should prepare.
Turn melancholy forth to funerals,
pox on't! I had rather not be so noble as I am,
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, and Forces, with scaling-ladders, their drums beating a dead march
This I must do, or know not what to do:
A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
Her sober virtue, years and modesty,
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
He sits 'mongst men like a descended god:
That would have forced your honour and your love,
Whose life's as tender to me as my soul!
Your right of birth, your empery, your own.
Master Fenton:' this is my doing.
I have his horse to take up the quarrel:
If he be not amazed, he will be mocked, if he be
The vaporous night approaches.
Which shipmen do the hurricano call,
She's dead as earth. Lend me a looking-glass,
I am quit.
it is naught. In respect that it is solitary, I
His word might bear my wealth at any time.
My herald thoughts in thy pure bosom rest them:
And make proud Saturnine and his empress
O, wither'd is the garland of the war,
Am I, who ready here do stand in arms,
near-legged before and with, a half-chequed bit
By any mark of favour.
What's your affair I pray you?
Here, sir, but trouble him not, his wits are gone.
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
Than priests and fanes that lie.
Whose fresh complexion and whose heart together
Say, if thou darest, proud Lord of Warwick-shire,
is he: now, you are not ipse, for I am he.
Till in her ashes she lie buried.
That virtue must go through. We must not stint
Portia, what mean you? wherefore rise you now?
I will help you, if I can:
And be all traitors that do so?
To thrust the lie unto him.
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
I will determine this before I stir.
What does the tyrant?
Not by his breath that is more miserable.
have heard it was ever his manner to do so.
That, having our fair order written down,
Is nought but bitterness. Now, Roderigo,
How will my wife for slaughter of my son
Insisture, course, proportion, season, form,
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
prosperity! Affliction may one day smile again, and
Stand you thus close, to steal the bishop's deer?
Kill thy physician, and the fee bestow
ANTIPHOLUS
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
that tears do not become a man.
I know my life so even. If your business
teeth and the lips: but this I can let you
In a sweet verbal brief, it did concern
My lords, forbear this talk, here comes the king.
and blood loves my flesh and blood, he that loves my
That it did, sir, i' the very throat on
They dare not show their husbands, their best conscience
Belike she minds to play the Amazon.
Do't not, thou split'st thine own.
Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star,
That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome,
'But I will never die.'
To the expecters of our Trojan part,
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
Now let me show a brother's love to thee.
O, a pit of clay for to be made
other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: what
what we know:
That Brutus leads me on.
And prove it in thy feeling. Heaven mend all!
Directly, I am going to Caesar's funeral.
chance to fail, he hath sentenced himself.
Farewell, sweet lords: let's meet at Coventry.
No, boy.
And will not hear it. What committed!
Exeunt OTHELLO and DESDEMONA
O, they did urge it still unto the king!
Convinced or supplied them, cannot choose
Out of this fearful country!
Enter, go in, the market bell is rung.
Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse:
'Tis not the land I care for, wert thou thence,
O my lord!
Alarums. Enter RUTLAND and his Tutor
Well, if we had of every nation a traveller, we
But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be
And laugh like parrots at a bag-piper,
I come, Graymalkin!
So are you, sweet,
In happy time, Iago.
Thou to me thy secrets tell.
The ground is bloody, search about the churchyard:
Lord Stafford's death.
For let our finger ache, and it indues
A witty mother! witless else her son.
'Tis the next way to turn tailor, or be red-breast
My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of, here with
We must give up to Diomedes' hand
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
I mean your malice, know, officious lords,
If thou, that bid'st me be content, wert grim,
I thank you, sir.
And wherefore are you gentle, strong and valiant?
The strings, my lord, are false.
Exeunt Portia and Nerissa
Indeed, a' must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the clout.
open thy affair.
Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin,
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
Hanging is the word, sir: if
if you should die before him, where's her dower?
Tut, never fear me: I am as vigilant as a cat to
O,--sixpence, that I had o' Wednesday last
Canst thou blame him?
This was a way to thrive, and he was blest:
Remain in't as thou mayst.
beadle, whip him till he leap over that same stool.
SCENE V. The same. A garden.
Men of his way should be most liberal,
Draw nearer, honest Flaminius. Thy lord's a
At Patrick's cell this even, and there she was not,
Well, jest on, brothers: I can tell you both
May be call'd ransom, let it come: sufficeth
painted blind, with a muffler afore her eyes, to
Lying with simple shells. O Lychorida,
You think of him too much.
A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that
How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands
The noble Menelaus.
in love. With who? now that is your grace's part.
No, noble mistress,'tis fresh morning with me
Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster, to my
Which hath our several honours all engaged
Nor other satisfaction do I crave,
Their eyes do offices of truth, their words
The form of my intent. I'll serve this duke:
O, welcome, father!
We offer fair, take it advisedly.
That most are willing. If any such be here--
Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
And hold fair friendship with his majesty.
True.
Re-enter Attendant
With his surcease success, that but this blow
In characters,
Your husband, he is gone to save far off,
'Tis ten to one it maim'd you two outright.
As mild and gentle as the cradle-babe
Of all the trades in Rome. Look, I am going:
[Aside to MOTH]  Once to behold, rogue.
I am no breeching scholar in the schools,
No more, gentlemen, no more:--here comes my father.
She is your own, else, you must pardon me,
These kind of knaves I know, which in this plainness
honour two notorious benefactors.
Then sing him home,
Whilst Bolingbroke, through our security,
Clerk, draw a deed of gift.
Enter LADY FAULCONBRIDGE and GURNEY
That England, being empty of defence,
one of our souls! He may have mercy upon mine, but
But that, it seems, he little purposeth,
He speak against me on the adverse side,
There will I visit Cleon, for the babe
Exit
Alas, what danger will it be to us,
All in the morning betime,
Yet every mother breeds not sons alike:
ANTIPHOLUS
Is bound for Italy, he embark'd at Milford,
Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee:
Shall I have audience? he shall present Hercules in
Fiddler, forbear, you grow too forward, sir:
Sink Rome, and their tongues rot
That, if thou conquer Rome, the benefit
Of all men else I have avoided thee:
Of no allowance to your bosom's truth.
Alack, where are you speak, an if you hear,
Brave thee! ay, by the best blood that ever was
No, on the barren mountains let him starve,
will do it in action as we will do it before the duke.
He being of age to govern of himself?
Laid to thy answer: but the last,--O lords,
Would they make peace? terrible hell make war
Ill-favouredly become the morning field:
That is no fleering tell-tale. Hold, my hand:
Some bastards too.
To pay our wonted tribute, from the which
You and your crafts! you have crafted fair!
Sirrah, where have you been?
I thank you gentle servant: 'tis very clerkly done.
I will be married to a wealthy widow,
Are you so formal, sir? well, I must wait,
Of all the world I loved and to him put
Tell the empress from me, I am of age
Outcast of Naples, England's bloody scourge!
And hold you ever to our special drift,
I'll yet follow
Therefore I part with him, and part with him
SCENE II. Venice. A street.
I'll fa you, do you note me?
this can sack and drinking do. A murrain on
dish of stewed prunes, and, by my troth, I cannot
rather--saving reverence of the word--for 'tis said
Would seem but modest: therefore, I beseech you
As mountain winds: but then exactly do
But Hercules himself must yield to odds,
What says he?
To whom they go to. What will you read to her?
Thy spirits are most tall.
You're shallow, madam, in great friends, for the
Obey our will, which travails in thy good:
Make not your thoughts your prisons: no, dear queen,
Signior Gremio, came you from the church?
He had been aboard, carousing to his mates
According to the measure of their states.
DUMB SHOW.
love-song, the very pin of his heart cleft with the
Clamber not you up to the casements then,
That love's keen arrows make.
Well, I know not
Our own precedent passions do instruct us
And with her personage, her tall personage,
utter all to thee.
Last night the very gods show'd me a vision--
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
Acknowledge thee their patron, and come freely
Let nature crush the sides o' the earth together
To rid us of the fear we have of him.
Having displeased my father, to Laurence' cell,
What must be shall be.
Great king, within this coffin I present
The presenters above speak
Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?
That cannot be: you are a counsellor,
What is the matter?
Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones.
The world and my great office will sometimes
You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies:
Exeunt
O heaven, that there were but a mote in yours,
Chattels, and whatsoever, and to be
Renew, renew! The fierce Polydamas
So he had need, for 'tis threadbare. Well, I say it
In him that should compare. I do not think
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
A greater power then we denies all this,
Making them lightest that wear most of it:
Lies heavy on me, O, my heart is sick!
Than one which holds a trencher.
Commander of this hot malicious day:
That still would manage those authorities
Come away.
O, she did so course o'er my exteriors with such a
drum struck up this afternoon: 'tis, as it were, a
And learn to make a body of a limb.
Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
O well done! I commend your pains,
them the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the
and in him that escapes, it were not sin to think
So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick:
consequently sets down the manner how, as, a sad
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
Let's go in, gentlemen, but, trust me, we'll mock
Going
So shall he waste his means, weary his soldiers,
Ay, when the special thing is well obtain'd,
Come on, tune: if you can penetrate her with your
tailor make thy doublet of changeable taffeta, for
Let's tune, and to it lustily awhile.
O most profane coxcomb!
I durst have denied that, before you were so choleric.
And find the welcome of a noble foe.
Of what hath moved you.
Of these our dear-beloved solemnized,
depends on it than we must yet deliver. Thus fail
SCENE V. Pentapolis. A room in the palace.
Confirm it so, mine honourable lord.
Or useful serving-man and instrument,
Has almost charmed me from my profession, by
How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.
You have made shift to run into 't, boots and spurs
Good gentleman, go your gait, and let poor volk
The period of thy tyranny approacheth.
spectatorship, and crueller in suffering, behold now
Therefore I took your hands, but was, indeed,
impudent nation. Fare ye well, sir, I am for France
All pity choked with custom of fell deeds:
Yet pause awhile:
For a charm of powerful trouble,
O, good my lord, no Latin,
'Tis not the king that sends you to the Tower:
always reason themselves out again. What! a
Sitting down
So thrive I, as I truly swear the like!
Disgrace to your great worths and shame to me,
Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
Feeling so the loss,
bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet
Tongues I'll hang on every tree,
But till the troops come by,
Exeunt ISABELLA, LUCIO, and Provost
He then unto the ladder turns his back,
Nearest the merchant's heart. Be merciful:
Take her away.
This Philoten contends in skill
Thou said'st, it comes o'er my memory,
And leave the world for me to bustle in!
I' faith, I thank him, he hath bid me to a calf's
which gentlemen have.
By whom I grant she lives. 'Tis now the time
comfort, your son will not be killed so soon as I
him heart-whole.
And could it work so much upon your shape
In execution.
O, let me think on Hastings, and be gone
Enter DON JOHN and BORACHIO
Exeunt
Faints
I do beseech you, madam, be content.
Charged our main battle's front, and breaking in
You are light into my hands, where you are like to live.
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
I will make it good how you dare, with what you
Stand in our way. There's for thy labour, Montjoy.
He's opposite to humanity. Come, shall we in,
O thou damnable fellow! Did not I pluck thee by the
But great men tremble when the lion roars,
Not petty things admitted. Where's Seleucus?
Fie on thee, jolt-head! thou canst not read.
Let good Antonio look he keep his day,
Into her scornful eyes! Infect her beauty,
Enter a Messenger
He longs to eat the English.
for the light in thy face, the son of utter
I grant ye.
So, so, now sit: and look you eat no more
That I gainsay my deed, how may he wound,
CASCA first, then the other Conspirators and BRUTUS stab CAESAR
fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
Thy Caesar knighted me, my youth I spent
Please your lordship, here is the wine.
ANTIPHOLUS
Mine ear must pluck it thence.
Shall sweet lord, be bound to you so much,
Ere now denied the asker? and now again
Tell him there's a post come from my master, with
To make my lady laugh when she's disposed,
Well, sir, I hope, when I do it, I shall do it on a
Spare not for the cost.
Now, York, or never, steel thy fearful thoughts,
To be consorted with the humorous night:
all, and he gives me the stuck in with such a mortal
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
Due to this heinous capital offence,
warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer, as
Power into will, will into appetite,
But here I am to speak what I do know.
As partly I find it is, that your fair daughter,
Exit Servant
And tread it under foot with all contempt,
I'll put a girdle round about the earth
the house: and, Falstaff, you carried your guts
Seal'd in my function, by my testimony:
As full of spirit as the month of May,
To gratulate the gentle princes there.
Thus do I leave thee. Come, son, let's away,
man as other men are,' and there indeed let him name
Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate.
You brace of warlike brothers, welcome hither.
Alas, what does this gentleman conceive?
Gives a letter
To sue, and be denied such common grace:
Be York the next that must be bankrupt so!
Re-enter MARIA, with SIR TOBY BELCH and FABIAN
church-door, but 'tis enough,'twill serve: ask for
We English warriors wot not what it means.
Holds from all soldiers chief majority
The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane,
Our letters are prepared.
His presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear
And he hath cut those pretty fingers off,
touch of modesty, that you will not extort from me
To be commanded.
Nay, hear me, Hubert, drive these men away,
In remembrance of a shroud.
So stale and cheap to vulgar company,
Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear
Enter three Watchmen, to guard KING EDWARD IV's tent
Sir, most heedfully.
Go charge my goblins that they grind their joints
Of our most sovereign king.
Nay, stay, lets hear the orisons he makes.
Why, your lieutenant, Cassio. Good my lord,
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow!
Follow the knave, and take this drab away.
O, step between her and her fighting soul:
You have heard much.
Pardon old Gower,--this longs the text.
Than the sea-monster!
For both our honour and our shame in this
In marriage-pleasures play-fellow:
To tell it o'er: go to, well said, well said.
And, with these boys, mine honour thou hast wounded:
The Lady Constance in a frenzy died
Cressid, I love thee in so strain'd a purity,
That Talbot's name might be in thee revived
Lay them in gore,
Nay, I will, that's flat:
The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream
Poor and content is rich and rich enough,
will be a black matter for the king that led them to
a week with bran and water.
I do beseech your grace, for charity,
Strikes him down
Makes both my body pine and soul to languish,
Farewell, Lavinia, my noble sister,
O, no, no, no! 'tis true. Here, take this too,
I pray you, sir, go forth,
Methinks, 'tis prize enough to be his son.
And with what wing the staniel cheques at it!
Mercury, lose all the serpentine craft of thy
Great Apollo
My head as I do his.
The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
Haste there before us: I constantly do think--
Enter CERIMON and THAISA
As dearly as my own,--be satisfied.
Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof.
Swifter than the moon's sphere,
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests,
There is an aunchient lieutenant there at the
May the winds blow till they have waken'd death!
It kept where I kept, I so dearly loved it,
overcame, three. Who came? the king: why did he
I'll try how you can sol, fa, and sing it.
Quite besides
Still neighbour mine. My ships are ready and
Here comes Sir John.
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
But rather one that smiles and still invites
There shall he sit till noon.
these letters delivered, put the liveries to making,
And see him dress'd in all suits like a lady:
I could not for my heart deny it him.
Not easily, I think.
To hear him so inclined.
Make way to lay them by their brethren.
Go, masters, get you home, be not dismay'd:
allow of thy wits, and fear to kill a woodcock, lest
Ay, boy.
yourself clear, why, I am glad of it, but if you
But list to me, my Humphrey, my sweet duke:
Edmund is dead, my lord.
Why under Mars?
Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,
Possess it, I'll make answer:
Exeunt BIANCA, KATHARINA, and Widow
And thy advice this night I'll put in practise.
Villain, I have done thy mother.
a trunk in one corner of it.
For, whilst our pinnace anchors in the Downs,
If you head and hang all that offend that way but
Of King Polixenes, it should here be laid,
Why, then, 'tis none to you, for there is nothing
I should have found in some place of my soul
Clifford, I say, come forth and fight with me:
Being so father'd and so husbanded?
Will greet us here anon, my gentle Varrius.
I'll so offend, to make offence a skill,
And what they may incense him to, being apt
Richard and Hastings: let them go, here is The duke.
Now, Iras, what think'st thou?
Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick:
lay aside the thoughts of Sicilia.
Derived from the ancient Capilet:
A thousand hearts are great within my bosom:
So should a murderer look, so dead, so grim.
Shall give thee opportunity.' O damn'd paper!
Against the hospitable canon, would I
I had been writ down an ass!
Hath yoked a nation strong, train'd up in arms.
[To the Watch]  Bring you these fellows on. We'll
With orange-tawny bill,
Dispatch, I say, and find the forester.
Come to the Capitol.
To say as I said then! But, come, away,
Gives way to in repose!
But half my lay thoughts in him, some of these
thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers.
Awake thee!
Here 'tis.
That little cares for buying any thing.
Than to drive liking to the name of love:
To be so bouted in this royal presence?
Exeunt
Enter COMINIUS
For what reason, I beseech you?
And plant in tyrants mild humility.
loose any longer, you must be pinioned.
The snake lies rolled in the cheerful sun,
In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom
About it, and write happy when thou hast done.
Never to woo her no more, but do forswear her,
I pray, awake, sir: if you love the maid,
had no other books but the score and the tally, thou
often give us soldiers the lie: but we pay them for
Which thou pour'st down from these swelling heavens
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
I then did ask of her her changeling child,
For love is crowned with the prime
Magic of bounty! all these spirits thy power
you'll have your nephews neigh to you, you'll have
Now, to our perjury to add more terror,
Why, then I will do what your grace commands.
That Silvia, at Friar Patrick's cell, should meet me.
We are not here. That you should here repent you,
Pray heaven, the king may never find a heart
A merchant of great traffic through the world,
Of hot and forcing violation?
This knight, no less for bounty bound to us
I will repeal thee, or, be well assured,
May now provoke them to.
'But yet' is as a gaoler to bring forth
they're half fish, half flesh: a plague on them,
What! did my brother Henry spend his youth,
Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
Such doubts, as false coin, from it. The king loves you,
Look in his youth to have him so cut off
Welcome, dear Proteus! Mistress, I beseech you,
How shall I understand you?
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
Bend their best studies, heartily request
An hour of revels with 'em.
This?
Our will is Antony be took alive,
The Emperor of Russia was my father:
Your ships already are in readiness.
It shall be said, his judgment ruled our hands,
death! Two o'clock is your hour?
Alarum, and chambers go off
What say they?
To England, if you will.
How hast thou injured both thyself and us!
This oath I willingly take and will perform.
Wearing the crown of France, till satisfied
Pardon me, sir, your bad entertainment.
Cleopatra's majesty,
In general, journey-bated and brought low:
I told you yesternight: there's a franklin in the
Fire answers fire, and through their paly flames
As thou my sometime daughter.
I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and
These quick-sands, Lepidus,
My lord Sebastian,
befriend me so far, as to use mine own words to him?
With such an agony, he sweat extremely,
Like one i' the stocks. Thou hast never in thy life
Setting endeavour in continual motion,
Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose
As I am a Christians soul now, look you, this is the
What's the matter, sweet-heart?
is imperial: England shall repent his folly, see
O my good lord! Sweet Isabel, take my part,
Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
ANTIPHOLUS
And quick Biron hath plighted faith to me.
Here is the place, my lord, good my lord, enter:
And this weak and idle theme,
Horns within. Enter KING LEAR, Knights, and Attendants
By wounding his belief in her renown
This bloody man, the care on't. I hope I dream,
Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
We hope to find you our friend, and therefore give
Nor his beauty.
For we will make for Ireland presently.
As whence the sun 'gins his reflection
And presently prefer his suit to Caesar.
With meditating that she must die once,
More than your enemies.
To kiss in private?
Kisses her
Therefore, good Brutus, be prepared to hear:
ANTIPHOLUS
And tell his wife that, being lunatic,
I have to think so: if thou shouldst not be glad,
SCENE IV. A room in Capulet's house.
Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes.
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
Who should that be? belike, unlook'd-for friends.
Is now become a god, and Cassius is
'Tis better using France than trusting France:
If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be
Because my book preferr'd me to the king,
Here come those I have done good to against my will,
Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
[Aside]  Her looks do argue her replete with modesty,
Brought to this town by that most famous warrior,
Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus
Bringing me here to kill me.
Tending to Caesar's glories, which Mark Antony,
And draw within the compass of suspect
Heaven would in little show.
Madam, I will.
I have sworn to do it,
Lord bishop, set the crown upon his head.
Lest unadvised you stain your swords with blood:
traitor, let him appear by the third sound of the
me a young doctor of Rome, his name is Balthasar. I
Very sooth, to-morrow.
Zenelophon, and he it was that might rightly say,
But I beseech your grace, without offence,--
I think it be no other but e'en so:
Take him up gently and to bed with him,
Doth ill deserve by doing well, what's worse,
And any thing that may not misbecome
O lady Fortune,
The weird sisters, hand in hand,
At a fair vestal throned by the west,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
So, now the gates are ope: now prove good seconds:
of Kent in Germany.
Might have the freer course.
Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
When time shall call him home from banishment,
should be 'By this fire, that's God's angel:' but
And then we'll try what these dastard Frenchmen dare.
if I were as tedious as a king, I could find it in
every man to his business.
I'll lend you all my life to do you service.
My tailor made them not.
Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee!
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
Drummer, strike up, and let us march away.
Ay, and for much more slaughter after this.
not in't, but they themselves are o' the mind, if it
villain Posthumus, will I kill thee. I would these
No, pray thee.
Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd.
Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the
That I may give the local wound a name
A noble shalt thou have, and present pay,
Have done a drunken slaughter, and defaced
In thy hand clutch'd as many millions, in
Fie on him, Jezebel!
Which first, perchance, she'll prove on
What woman is, yea, what she cannot choose
Of Helicanus would set on
What harmony is this? My good friends, hark!
You're a dog.
To find out practises of cunning hell,
Fathers that wear rags
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
What, the sword and the word! do you study them
Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.
Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark,
To me, your friend, than any.
or since dishonour traffics with man's nature,
And swear unto my soul to right your wrongs.
The meat is cold because you come not home,
He who the sword of heaven will bear
one she loves.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
deceiving promises of life, which I by my good
Will hear your idle scorns, continue then,
That were enwombed mine: 'tis often seen
displeasure.
Exeunt
Shall be lamented, pitied and excused
not proved worthy a blackberry: they set me up, in
O Lord, I cannot speak to him for weeping,
I know you not.
For your behoof,--
What shall I do? There is a gentleman my dear
To gather from thee: haply thou mayst inform
I have operations which be humours of revenge.
To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
And sundry blessings hang about his throne,
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
fit for your o'er-looking.
And that I see, in passages of proof,
SCENE III. The Florentine camp.
Good worts! good cabbage. Slender, I broke your
So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts
And twice by awkward wind from England's bank
That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.
Is found a truth now: for it grows again
Ay, madam, you may say what sights you see,
If you apply yourself to our intents,
Of my huge sorrows! Better I were distract:
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Bid my guard watch, leave me.
As well as he that sleeps, lords that can prate
What shouts are these? The other side o' the city
For native blood is counted painting now,
No other harm but loss of such a lord.
I am not mad, I know thee well enough:
And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
That it shall render vengeance and revenge
Without our special wonder? You make me strange
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
I beseech you a word: what is she in the white?
But that the Scot on his unfurnish'd kingdom
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
Speak frankly as the wind,
It was a handkerchief, an antique token
Of all perfections that a man may owe,
Should hazard such a place as his own second
First, make yourself but like one.
Of law and course of direct session
Exit FALSTAFF
'em good shipping! But who is here? mine old
Our just and lineal entrance to our own,
Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard,
solemnized: if the interim be but a se'nnight,
Going to find a bare-foot brother out
I think it be two o'clock.
That he hath not.
Parted you in good terms? Found you no
Than the soft myrtle: but man, proud man,
Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm.
In any breast of strong authority,
Our fatherless distress was left unmoan'd,
Yet, notwithstanding such a strait edict,
And die in terror of thy guiltiness!
He, he, I can never hit on's name. There is such a
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and DOCTOR CAIUS
Thou shalt be so well master'd, but, be sure,
Exit
Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound
I will tell you sensibly.
I have to use: thy frank election make,
That at the parting all the church did echo:
Servant!
We'll keep him here: then what is that to him?
Your worship says very true: I pray your worship,
If quick fire of youth light not your mind,
At the park gate, and therefore haste away,
And made me climb, with danger of my life.
Though they are made and moulded of things past,
Great Coeur-de-lion's heart was buried,
With her whom here I cannot hold on shore,
If it appear not plain and prove untrue,
He begg'd of me to steal it.
Exeunt
same piece
afflictions, say, that I cannot pleasure such an
Who was in life a foolish prating knave.
That stay at home, if bearing carry it,
Thanks, gentlemen, to all, all have done well.
Thou took'st a beggar, wouldst have made my throne
Let in the maid, that out a maid
In my heart's love hath no man than yourself:
And all unlook'd for from your highness' mouth:
And, princes French, and peers, health to you all!
'Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge
As deep as that, though true.
Nor aught so good but strain'd from that fair use
Peruse this paper, madam.
'Tis not possible.
Drums afar off
Most palates theirs. They choose their magistrate,
condition, but therewithal the unruly waywardness
to lie in mine own throat.
perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
Here's a villain!
Enter JESSICA, above, in boy's clothes
ANTIPHOLUS
She is content to be at your command,
Save you, worthy general!
Agree to any covenants, and procure
Show me the way of yielding.
Gone to be married! gone to swear a peace!
It did move him to passion, and therefore let's hear it.
Seyton!--I am sick at heart,
Lord of York's armour.
You'll leave your noise anon, ye rascals: do you
to-day at bowls I'll win to-night of him. Come, go.
There are pretty orders beginning, I can tell you:
his head in the view of Angelo? I may make my case
Should strike such terror to his enemies.
And full as much, for more there cannot be,
ACT II
She swore, in faith, twas strange, 'twas passing strange,
The ring was never hers.
Proud with his form, in his eye pride express'd:
Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness
This must be answer'd either here or hence.
SCENE III. The same. A street.
Hath he never heretofore sounded you in this business?
Now put it, God, in the physician's mind
But you shall do no harm.
For my part, I care not: I say little, but when
and lighted
Or I will tear the reckoning from his heart.
Fillip the stars, then let the mutinous winds
All praises, which are paid as debts,
Say, what abridgement have you for this evening?
O,'tis Marcius!
Loves me as dear as e'er my mother did,
Go in, Nerissa,
Three months from twelve, then, let me see, the rate--
Enter HAMLET, reading
Madam, not yet: I go to take my stand,
I' faith, coz, 'tis he.
father compounded with my mother under the
And yet I know him a notorious liar,
Young ravens must have food.
Thou know'st, the first time that we smell the air,
Sir tell me not of the father, I do fear colourable
Well said, my masters, and welcome all. To this
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
That she vouchsafe me audience for one word.
Would she had never given you leave to come!
But yet I run before my horse to market:
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
Since you to non-regardance cast my faith,
Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest,
Well could I leave our sport to sleep awhile.
A terrible childbed hast thou had, my dear,
As he hath followed you, with all despite,
her father be very rich, any man is so very a fool
Ay, and truly, you were best.
'Save you, good Sir Hugh!
Know'st me not by my clothes?
Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
Hath blazed with lights and bray'd with minstrelsy,
Be thou ashamed that I have took upon me
I will, sweet queen.
For even to vice
And out of doubt you do me now more wrong
According to my shallow simple skill.
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
That if you now beheld them, your affections
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
In what you please: I'll do what I can.
Dream on thy cousins smother'd in the Tower:
He flatters you, makes war upon your life.
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
Some villain hath done me wrong.
And you shall be conducted.
indict the author of affectation, but called it an
I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord,--
To DON JOHN
abbreviated ne. This is abhominable,--which he
Is practise only. Give me my servant forth.
displeasure in him by word or countenance?
The worthy Leonatus is in safety
Will the time serve to tell? I do not think.
With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
When we were happy we had other names.
Too rashly plotted: all our general force
Filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks,
Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
down the prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.
All three of you, to be thus much o'ershot?
Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
SCENE I. Padua. A public place.
Do a fair message to his kingly ears?
Be quite contrary: and thatch your poor thin roofs
My name is Proculeius.
And leave his master Antony: for this pains
From what a torment I did free thee?
Exeunt Attendants
for yours.
But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd,
But cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon,
As I for praise alone now seek to spill
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
Of Hereford, Stafford, and Northampton, I
fidiused for all the chests in Corioli, and the gold
Groped I to find out them, had my desire.
been troubled with a pernicious suitor. I thank God
O kiss me through the hole of this vile wall!
if in our youths we could pick up some pretty
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
it upon my death, I gave him this wound in the
RICHARD
O ye gods,
witnesses: bear it coldly but till midnight, and
Look, where they come:
Let him, my son: he shall not need to grieve
rush for Tom's forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
Whose great decision hath much blood let forth
Handlest in thy discourse, O, that her hand,
Is that the chain you promised me to-day?
Exit
Mine eyes are full of tears, my heart of grief.
Fair encounter
France were no place for Henry's warriors,
His resemblance, being not like the duke,
cold brook,
Forthlight the tilter, and brave Master Shooty the
Such gallant chiding: for, besides the groves,
To an untirable and continuate goodness:
Enter the BASTARD and HUBERT, severally
his grace, and his majesty too!
Hath not the ring upon it, it is gone.
A leaner action rend us. What's amiss,
Against my life: the minute of their plot
Where is thy brother Bassianus?
Of smiling peace to march a bloody host,
And sack great Rome with Romans.
and much fool may you find in you, even to the
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
Ay, do you fear it?
No Achilles with him.
Betwixt the wind and his nobility.
In her imagined person.
That thou wouldst tremble to receive thyself.
Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin. Good
To dinner presently.
What, must our mouths be cold?
That it prefers itself and leaves unquestion'd
My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have,
Spoke like an officer, ha' to thee, lad!
I promise you, my soul is very jocund
Fellow, I know thee.
For yesternight by Catesby was it brought me,
And constant do remain to keep him so.
Never,--O fault!--reveal'd myself unto him,
your blows.
Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  That year, indeed, he was
Thy wife is proud, she holdeth thee in awe,
That by direct or indirect attempts
To have me out of Egypt, made wars here,
Exeunt
Lady, you come hither to be married to this count.
When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
As she is troubled with thick coming fancies,
Nor I neither.
I would they would forget me, like the virtues
Angliae, et Haeres Franciae.
maid! where's my cousin Cressid?
My mistress loved thee, and her fortunes mingled
Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.
Thy topless deputation he puts on,
What, wilt thou hear some music,
Why, he that wears her like a medal, hanging
And, though thou think me poor, I am the man
You must think this, look you, that the worm will
And never see the Louvre.
second day of audience. When you are hearing a
There's Ulysses and old Nestor, whose wit was mouldy
And as he saith, so say we all with him.
Do botch and bungle up damnation
thou darest tempt me further, draw thy sword.
This is a dreadful sentence.
That had a head to hit, either young or old,
You scurvy lord!
So sweet a bedfellow? But, conscience, conscience!
I had it of him: pardon me, Bassanio,
Admired Octavia: great Mark Antony
What an ass art thou! I understand thee not.
So, now prosperity begins to mellow
Grow in the veins of actions highest rear'd,
SCENE II. Imogen's bedchamber in Cymbeline's palace:
And blood of your begetting.
towards him? I will make your peace with him if I
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
And not to us, but to thy arm alone,
troubles me, and the foolish fortune of this girl,
That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.
Who hath he left behind him general?
His venom tooth will rankle to the death:
But rather drowzed and hung their eyelids down,
a wherefore.
From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth
your full time of imprisonment and your deliverance
To entertain me as your steward still.
That thou but lead'st this fashion of thy malice
But who did bid thee join with us?
And Cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here
And, not without some scandal to yourself,
I see, sir, you are liberal in offers
must to the watch.
Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars,
My discontented troops, and lay for hearts.
most dreadful thing, for there is not a more fearful
so long am I at the least. But wilt thou make a
But to confront the visage of offence?
Why?
Glittering in golden coats, like images,
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
of the chamber. How many masters would do this for
And not to spend it so unneighbourly!
Poison hath residence and medicine power:
He shall not live, look, with a spot I damn him.
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part:
In France: 'tis plate of rare device, and jewels
O good Sir Toby, hold! here come the officers.
That Edward still should live! 'True, noble prince!'
Mistress Bianca, bless you with such grace
Well, no more of it, Master Froth: farewell.
This is some priory. In, or we are spoil'd!
reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the
And true he swore, though yet forsworn he were.
His tedious measures with the unbated fire
Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
Her injury the beadle to her sin,
And thus I cured him, and this way will I take upon
Now must I to the monument alone,
Be cross with him, and I'll go fetch thy sons
And stolen the impression of her fantasy
That have with two pernicious daughters join'd
What is that noise?
And mine, I promise you, were't not for shame,
Almost no better than so many French,
The climate's delicate, the air most sweet,
darkness, alias, the devil.
Laid gifts before him, proffer'd him their oaths,
in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
Madam, speak true. It is not so, my lord:
there was but one way, for his nose was as sharp as
Which not to read would show the Britons cold:
Turning his face, he put his hand behind him,
Three or four thousand chequins were as pretty a
Yea, wherefore should she not?
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
blows, and withal so doubtfully that I could scarce
Exit
You all do know this mantle: I remember
An earthly paragon! Behold divineness
And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
Sway'd from the point, by looking down on Caesar.
What of that?
Bear hence this body and attend our will:
O, prepare it!
Thou know'st I do: I call'd thee by thy name.
To CYMBELINE
encounter, after we had embraced, kissed, protested,
What talkest thou to me of the hangman? if I hang,
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
And either [         ] the devil, or throw him out
Out of the mind.
O Brutus!
Two several times by night, at Sardis once,
To give your censures in this weighty business?
Here is my hand for my true constancy,
in peace, the clown shall make those laugh whose
What sin you do to save a brother's life,
The boy is foolish, and I fear not him.
Are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd.
Soil our addition, and indeed it takes
And hang himself. I pray you, do my greeting.
thee, nuncle, thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides,
That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
Papist, howsome'er their hearts are severed in
ANTIPHOLUS
Dost think I am so muddy, so unsettled,
What you command, that rests in me to do.
Long sitting to determine poor men's causes
great article, and his infusion of such dearth and
In so entitling me, and no less honest
And so your follies fight against yourself.
Are not you a coward? answer me to that: and Poins there?
Anon expect him here, but if she be obdurate
I'll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her.
A prating boy, that begg'd it as a fee:
The more delay'd, delighted. Be content,
And, that my love may appear plain and free,
Desire the earl to see me in my tent:
Alas, my lord,
The cause of his arrival here in arms:
For Theseus' perjury and unjust flight,
Bring them before us.
Prithee, let him alone, we shall have more anon.
I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it
Wither goes Vaux so fast? what news, I prithee?
O, sir, very well, here in your orchard.
whisper: with as little a web as this will I
Gentle my liege,--
Moon and stars!
That if he overhold his price so much,
As far from help as Limbo is from bliss!
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Feed on her damask cheek: she pined in thought,
Thus may we gather honey from the weed,
To make her heavenly comforts of despair,
Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
own child. Well, old man, I will tell you news of
Whose disposition, all the world well knows,
That he's a made-up villain.
Exeunt
I cannot stay thanksgiving.
I do appoint him store of provender:
Warrant me welcome to my Proteus.
And I, to keep all this.
No way excuse his soils, when we do bear
Re-enter LUCIANA with a purse
Of the most bloody nurser of his harms!
desire it.
To the extreme edge of hazard.
Pardon, guest-justice. A word, Mounseur Mockwater.
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
More straining on for plucking back, not following
I know your majesty has always loved her
house: her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques
I pray you, now receive them.
I'll tell you news indifferent good for either.
Do not deny to him that you love me.
And, as it were far off sound thou Lord Hastings,
Appear'd to me, with other spritely shows
Before so noble and so great a figure
SCENE IV. Rome. A public place.
Which way would Hector have it?
Exeunt some Servants
Too ceremonious and traditional
star-blasting, and taking! Do poor Tom some
Madam, if your heart be so obdurate,
My lord, I rescued her,
Can this be so? did Angelo so leave her?
Being native burghers of this desert city,
the complaints I have heard of you I do not all
Come, sir,
To GONERIL
Hector trembles.
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
That presently you take our way for home,
You, you, ay, you!
You will not, then?
And wedded be thou to the hags of hell,
Which I in sufferance heartily will rejoice,
Here, I will mend thy feast.
And that his bags shall prove.
To you I speak.
Now I begin to relish thy advice,
Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm
casement of my closet.
them break your backs with burthens, take your
Strain'd purely from all hollow bias-drawing,
Ay, what else? fear you not her courage.
But let him swear so, and he shall not stay,
With thine entirely.
Thou wilt be throng'd to shortly.
But that's no fault of his: we must receive him
Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
Enter GOWER
I put myself to thy direction, and
I go to certify her Talbot's here.
Cannot deny, he hath done no Briton harm,
Ah, gracious lord, these days are dangerous:
[Aside to ANTONIO]  The next advantage
That robb'd Andronicus of his good hand,
But, as I say, such as become a soldier,
front his revenges with the easy groans of old
But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
Five justices' hands at it, and witnesses more than
SCENE IV. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
From Florence and must here deliver them.
That's my office.
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
He gives his hand to WARWICK
In her consists my happiness and thine,
I take this offer, then, pay the bond thrice
If non to bless us and the land withal,
clap hands and a bargain: how say you, lady?
if it were going to bucking: or--it is whiting-time
Then, if you can,
court, and they are going to meet him.
Sound drums and trumpets boldly and cheerfully,
The nature of the sickness found, Ulysses,
Like a dull actor now,
But such an honest chronicler as Griffith.
Exit
To give you gentle pass, for, if we may,
This is your wife.
Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit
married under a bush like a beggar? Get you to
would vouchsafe the answer.
O deadly gall, and theme of all our scorns!
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
So 'tis our will he should.
In an odd angle of the isle and sitting,
were so simple, none else would: but you are so
will trust his wife, he will not be jealous. I will
is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.
Is she worth keeping? why, she is a pearl,
I will not take her on gift of any man.
Let him come in.
SCENE II. A prison.
I think she means to tangle my eyes too!
Peace, Grumio! it is the rival of my love.
Prizes not quantity of dirty lands,
For ere the glass, that now begins to run,
Exeunt
Who comes with him?
us. When we banished him, we respected not them,
Among the buzzing pleased multitude,
As one that surfeits thinking on a want.
To tread down fair respect of sovereignty,
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Enter MALVOLIO
Enter DERBY
This night forestall him of the coming day!
Enter MACBETH, SEYTON, and Soldiers, with drum and colours
The guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour,
They were trained together in their childhoods, and
Conscience is but a word that cowards use,
Where did you buy it? or who gave it you?
Draw forth thy weapon, we are beset with thieves,
And true she is, as she hath proved herself,
I, even I: what think you of it, madam?
Of burning Rome.
As they contend with thee in courtesy.
To that which had too much:' then, being there alone,
Nurse!
no sooner achieved, but we'll set upon them.
To blot out me, and put his own son in.
Nor can I utter all our bitter grief,
Proportion'd to our cause, must be as great
You must eat men. Yet thanks I must you con
there rooted betwixt them then such an affection,
Which is the greatest lady, the highest?
Exeunt
Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him.
Calpurnia here, my wife, stays me at home:
No elder than a boy!
no better than picture-like to hang by the wall, if
Here is the head, I'll carry it myself.
thou alive?
Sings
breath of him in a divided draught, is the readiest
Sweet saint, for charity, be not so curst.
Who, as we hear, are busily in arms:
'Faith, I perceive our masters may throw their caps
Hath dimm'd your infant morn to aged night.
Sir, I will pronounce your sentence: you shall fast
A fistula, my lord.
Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick!
me: your name, I think, is Adrian.
And not believes himself: down with the nose,
His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
Of the whole state: as, of late days, our neighbours,
SCENE II. Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.
Woe, alas!
You are full of pretty answers. Have you not been
Climb o'er the house to unlock the little gate.
Or with some dram conjured to this effect,
With course disturb'd even thy confining shores,
Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide arch
Enter PANDARUS and Troilus's Boy, meeting
That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar
Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
To lie close by his honest bones: but now
But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
DON
I will go on. I lay with Cassio lately,
New wars 'gainst Pompey, made his will, and read it
Bedford, if thou be slack, I'll fight it out.
The moment on't, for't must be done to-night,
That angels love good men with, even of her
At mine unworthiness that dare not offer
Unto some monstrous state.
that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged
to convince the honour of my mistress, if, in the
So went he suited to his watery tomb:
The ring I saw upon his finger now--
I know thee well, how dost thou, my good fellow?
say in the behalf of that Falstaff.
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
Help, Jupiter, or we appeal,
To help unarm our Hector: his stubborn buckles,
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
O, I have pass'd a miserable night,
Ay, and by heaven, one that will do the deed
No less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honour,
I wrote to you
Ay, and he'll tame her.
Makes all these bodements.
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
But where to-morrow?  Well, all's one for that.
Well, sir, I will, therefore, I will, sir, thus:
My disobedience 'gainst the king my father
O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth,
This shall assure my constant loyalty,
Come, your lord calls!
[Within]  What a coil is there, Dromio? who are those
Pardon, pardon!
I am for other business.
Pardon me, sir, it was a black ill-favor'd fly,
And think we think ourselves unsatisfied,
Ho! Noble captain, come.
Enter GADSHILL
think it fit to shore them again and that the
Through brazen trumpet send the breath of parley
It would become me better than to close
My heart is sorry for your daughter's death:
purse of wit, thou pigeon-egg of discretion. O, an
A crowd of people, among them ARTEMIDORUS and the  Soothsayer. Flourish. Enter CAESAR, BRUTUS,  CASSIUS, CASCA, DECIUS BRUTUS, METELLUS CIMBER,  TREBONIUS, CINNA, ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POPILIUS, PUBLIUS, and others
The picture that is hanging in your chamber,
You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!
Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
Alarum and retreat. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD, MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and Soldiers
But yet you draw not iron, for my heart
And, now it is half-conquer'd, must I back
Sir, I thank you, by yea and no, I do.
That by this sympathized one day's error
And speaking it, he wistly look'd on me,
An turn our impress'd lances in our eyes
ANTIPHOLUS
way: hark! you may know by their trumpets.
And were the king on't, what would I do?
No, I'll nothing: for if I should be bribed too,
For our beloved mother in her pains.
They sit conferring by the parlor fire.
Money, youth?
Cousin, of many men
Thou art rash as fire, to say
We shall not find like opportunity.
No doubt, shall then and till then govern well.
Have ever come too short of my desires,
She could not sway her house, command her followers,
Being that I flow in grief,
so they shall be both bestowed. I have suffered more
This is the latest glory of thy praise
I know he will be glad of our success,
He is simply the most active gentleman of France.
Save you, sir.
What wheels? racks? fires? what flaying? boiling?
SCENE II. GLOUCESTER'S house.
Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested, saw
Enter BRUTUS, DARDANIUS, CLITUS, STRATO, and VOLUMNIUS
Infer fair England's peace by this alliance.
offence gracious, though few have the grace to do it.
Bless you, my fortunate lady!
a score of villains: if there sit twelve women at
I will hear Cassius, and compare their reasons,
Which he not dreams of.
As shall revenge his death before I stir.
They fight
As this fore-spurrer comes before his lord.
request, cousin, in any reason.
O, they were all in lamentable cases!
let him tell the king: we are prepared. I will set
How painted? and how out of count?
Teach me to be your queen, and you my subjects:
O, say so, and so be!
he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk: he
I saw not better sport these seven years' day:
With powerful policy strengthen themselves,
Before the eyes of both our armies here,
Who had the world as my confectionary,
And he's indicted falsely.
Now heaven forfend! the holy maid with child!
Be any further moved. What you have said
O Kate, nice customs curtsy to great kings. Dear
Then Troilus should have too much: if she praised
Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS with a trumpet
Let it be so: I do commit his youth
Than a delightful measure or a dance,
Exit
That is not blinded by her majesty?
Nay, stay a little:
occupation, if I would not have taken him at a word,
Gives us more palm in beauty than we have,
What would they, say they?
How if they will not?
And a good soldier too, lady.
In state as wholesome as in state 'tis fit,
The beauty of her person to the people.
France, thou shalt rue this treason with thy tears,
And be as sweet as sharp. We must away,
Here comes Lorenzo: more of this hereafter.
Her husband being alive. Now then we'll use
Polecats! there are fairer things than polecats, sure.
Why, this was known before.
To-morrow morning call some knight to arms
As matter whole you have not to make it with,
All perishen of man, of pelf,
Come, come, you talk greasily, your lips grow foul.
As misers do by beggars, neither gave to me
Will not offend thee.
Exeunt
Religion groans at it.
Tranio, be so, because Lucentio loves:
Are there such? such are not we: praise us as we
Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
Let us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks.
Upon his passion, let myself and fortune
It is enthroned in the hearts of kings,
Gloucester's men rush at the Tower Gates, and WOODVILE the Lieutenant speaks within
Can send his brother: and, but infirmity
the service, and the tied! Why, man, if the river
Or with their blood stain this discolour'd shore.
Why not on Proteus, as of all the rest?
My former speeches have but hit your thoughts,
For she his hairy temples then had rounded
And nod their heads, and throw their eyes on thee!
Or with the clamorous report of war
To make hazard of new fortunes here:
Sign me a present pardon for my brother,
For then, and not till then, he felt himself,
Barns and garners never empty,
Rome, be as just and gracious unto me
That seeth not this palpable device?
The scourge of greatness to be used on it,
With a wench.
DON
Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,
Play too, but so disgraced a part, whose issue
Exeunt all but CERIMON
True, true, we are four.
For never henceforth shall I joy again,
But all's not done, yet keep the French the field.
Accountant to the law upon that pain.
To dwell in solemn shades of endless night.
Dost thou love hawking? thou hast hawks will soar
To walk this way: I never do him wrong,
Troy must not be, nor goodly Ilion stand,
They draw
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
Enter SNUG
Nay, go not from us thus.
To fight against me under Percy's pay,
sleekly combed their blue coats brushed and their
To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood,
Via! les eaux et la terre.
not pocket up wrong: art thou not ashamed?
Than his that shakes for age and feebleness:
Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus,
Hast thou or word, or wit, or impudence,
I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes,
As life were in't: I have supp'd full with horrors,
Hath been! is it ended, then? Our state thinks not
And still conclusion, shall acquire no honour
I will away towards Barnet presently,
It sounds no more: and sure, it waits upon
[Within]  Madam!
I take my leave with many thousand thanks.
His sorrows have so overwhelm'd his wits,
queen's, which accidentally, or by the way of
beautified Ophelia,'--
The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home
And think how such an apprehension
that? away!
Your country's fat shall pay your pains the hire,
More than to see this ring. Take him away.
In that word's death, no words can that woe sound.
What should I see then?
question to be asked. There is a thing, Harry,
And follows but for form,
hair, complexion, height, age, with warrant of her
This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's
My noble girls! Ah, women, women, look,
demonstration of grief?
And for his meed, poor lord, he is mew'd up.
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
But thou dost in thy passages of life
I am not mad, too well, too well I feel
If it mar nothing neither,
No? why, 'tis a plain case: he that went, like a
Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master, and
I' the justice of compare! O villain Leonine!
my labour, if she be otherwise, 'tis labour well bestowed.
Light boats sail swift, though greater hulks draw deep.
Justice to break her sword! One more, one more.
The Briton reveller.
That thou attend me: thou dost here usurp
not forward, doth it?
and all one.
O gentle lady, do not put me to't,
Pyramus, or nothing.
No, indeed, master.
Ay, Hal, 'tis hot, 'tis hot, there's that will sack a city.
Upon her gentle bosom, and fill up
Full of strange oaths and bearded like the pard,
Like one I loved indeed. What were thy friends?
Of her own clime, complexion, and degree,
Exit
For my peculiar care. This one thing only
Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
He hath found the meaning, for which we mean
And will, no doubt, be found.
And curtain'd with a counsel-keeping cave,
Alarum afar off
Bless you, sir!
In private, then.
Ay, the bolting, but you must tarry the leavening.
The sweet which is their poison: your dishonour
Those enemies of Timon's and mine own
Dismay'd not this
Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service
And all such false professors! would you have me--
That knows his valour, and knows not his fear,
The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.
There is no hope that ever I will stay,
To come near.
How canst thou woo her?
Go, speak not to me, even now be gone.
Good my lord cardinal, I have half a dozen healths
With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.
My ingenious instrument!
Where's your commission, lords? words cannot carry
and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
Look, how thou dream'st! I say again, give out
Bring down the devil, for he must not die
Flourish of cornets. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Hold up thy hand, make signal of thy hope.
Come, come, they are almost here. How many stand
Where are the evidence that do accuse me?
For they have grudged us contribution:
Your grace shall understand that at the receipt of
Bestride the rock, the tide will wash you off,
In all submission and humility
he will offer to say what methought I had. The eye
I cross'd the seas on purpose and on promise
The malice towards you to forgive you: live,
Exit Boy
Of your dead queen.
past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy,
From off the battlements of yonder tower,
I know he'll quickly fly my friendship too.
Good day, good day.
your heart: but, good Kate, mock me mercifully, the
Therefore we meet not now. Then let me hear
Exit. Alarums
Enter Chamberlain, reading a letter
Exit EROS
Enter CAPULET, PARIS, and Servant
of three several deaths, first, an intolerable
No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse:
And afterward consort you till bed-time:
Is't possible?
It is most retrograde to our desire:
Call him my king by whose injurious doom
If both were open'd.
He is but mad yet, madonna, and the fool shall look
When right with right wars who shall be most right!
Than whereupon our weal, on you depending,
Upon her nuptial vow, her loyalty,
Call 'em, let me see 'em.
So well, that what you bid me undertake,
Say who art thou that lately didst descend
scarlet, and when you breathe in your watering, they
Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back,
Let him not know't, and he's not robb'd at all.
I'll send them all as willing as I live:
shall beat out my brains with billets: I will not
For what you see is but the smallest part
These couples shall eternally be knit:
And our return, to excuse: but first, how get hence:
That same Diomed's a false-hearted rogue, a most
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
How can that be?
What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray's charge?
Enter TITANIA and BOTTOM, PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH,  MUSTARDSEED, and other Fairies attending, OBERON behind unseen
Of our so frank donation. Well, what then?
your worship well, God restore you to health! I
In the unpartial judging of this business.
Lend me a garter. So. O, for a chair,
That you have wrong'd me doth appear in this:
You shall do small respect, show too bold malice
Cupid is a knavish lad,
With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had lived!
motion, that it is inevitable, and on the answer, he
Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold:
That I may live to say, The dog is dead!
Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.
Cranmer will find a friend will not shrink from him.
The water of my land, find her disease,
'Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels.
Came here to make us merry! and thou hast
Your reason?
Have found him guilty of high treason. Much
To TRANIO
And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand,
more money than I'll speak of.
Upon mine hostess there: good sir, make haste.
And by that name must die: yet, heaven bear witness,
Exeunt Ladies
I shall have it.
About his marriage, nor my own disgrace,
Till it fly out and show them princes born.
Would use his heaven for thunder,
O, I know him well, I, sir, he, sir, 's a good
I'll wait upon your honour.
Broken his staff of office and dispersed
One cried 'God bless us!' and 'Amen' the other,
Ah, hark! the fatal followers do pursue,
Tell me if you love Warwick more than me?
Shall then be his, and like a vine grow to him:
My lord of Orleans, and my lord high constable, you
Exit
age to show himself a young gallant! What an
[Within]  Nothing but death shall stay me.
The emperor calls Canidius.
To buy you a better husband.
come from Pisa, and is here at the door to speak with him.
Until the duke take order for his burial:
say, you cannot pass. Therefore, go back.
To this same place, to this same monument.
And yet, methinks, I could be well content
joy waded in tears. There was casting up of eyes,
Alarum afar off, as at a sea-fight
Therefore I'll make him sure, yea, and I'll swear I
Amen, say we: we will be witnesses.
In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks
I have received much honour by your presence,
Thy name well fits thy faith, thy faith thy name.
But how, is to be question'd, for I saw her,
And with her breath she did perfume the air:
Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master
if he should cheapen a kiss of her.
When it is lighted, come and call me here.
The one by the other.
Naught rests for me in this tumultuous strife
That fret the clouds are messengers of day.
taught me how to know a man in love, in which cage
As if besmear'd in hell. Sit by us, you shall hear--
What he will do: but if he will not yield,
And you yourself shall steer the happy helm.
And Silvia--witness Heaven, that made her fair!--
If thou deny, their blood upon thy head,
Though Cambridge, Scroop and Grey, in their dear care
A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
Come, sir, I will not let you go. Come, my young
The sun begins to gild the western sky,
I did not give the lie. Out o' your
The ingratitude of this Seleucus does
Benedick's face,--
Exit
Thy name is Gaultier, being rightly sounded.
are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push
Let him appear that's come from Antony.
Good ground, be pitiful and hurt me not!
Why, noble lords,
For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love,
By fair or foul means we must enter in,
On this young man, for learning and behavior
Many for many virtues excellent,
Enter LYCHORIDA, with an Infant
Shall govern England.'
Would we had spoke together! Haste we for it:
How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied,
As masterly as he: mere prattle, without practise,
Most just and heavy causes make oppose.
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.
Behold thy fill.
o'er, should undo a man? Some say the bee stings:
Whoever knocks!
That thou hast under-wrought his lawful king
For our advantage on the bitter cross.
Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator,
With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest
Piercing the night's dull ear, and from the tents
We'll crave a parley, to confer with him.
would change my humanity with a baboon.
And pluck the wings from Painted butterflies
And heartily entreats you take good comfort.
To keep it builded, be the ram to batter
The nature of it? in what kind, let's know,
One word in secret.
I am glad to see you, good Master Slender.
Come, fear you not: good counsellors lack no
esteemed greatness, will you hear the dialogue that
What can go well, when we have run so ill?
Scattering flowers
A counterpoise, if not to thy estate
Sweet Phebe,--
ever chewed with a tooth. Eight yards of uneven
These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what!
Than is the full-wing'd eagle. O, this life
'Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here.
prize, and have it, yea, and can show it you here in
That mould up such a mighty piece as this is,
Mistress Page is come with me, sweetheart.
And, his corruption being ta'en from us,
Instinctively had quit it: there they hoist us,
Idly supposed the founder of this law,
My purpose was not to have seen you here,
twenty what were good to be done, than be one of the
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
Will suddenly break forth. Sir, fare you well:
That your activity may defeat and quell
As this world goes, to pass for honest.
And so am come abroad to see the world.
Where our desire is got without content:
This is the day that, in King Edward's time,
I think this be the most villanous house in all
'Then' is spoken, fare you well now: and yet, ere
In this wild action, for the success,
Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me,
Are visibly character'd and engraved,
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the
And, lo, the happiness! go, and importune her.
But Margaret was in some fault for this,
Prithee, be not sad,
Well, sirs, I am almost out at heels.
Prince Troilus: I will make a complimental assault
Cicero one!
I am not bound to that all slaves are free to.
If it be man's work, I'll do 't.
For my prosperity!
soul!' and forgave him with all their hearts: but
When I had at my pleasure taunted her
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
As ours by murder, to make him a king!
In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
I shall find you anon.
[Above]  Titinius is enclosed round about
Thump! then see thou thump thy master well.
Know, sir, that I am call'd Hortensio.
Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus,
Descend, and open your uncharged ports:
No single soul
I think she stirs again:--no. What's best to do?
Note me this, good friend,
That erst did follow thy proud chariot-wheels
DON
Think when we talk of horses, that you see them
Kate, to conquer the kingdom as to speak so much
Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she
Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts?
a man who hath any honesty in him.
With shining chequer'd slough, doth sting a child
him: he had, sir, a kind of face, methought,--I
therein would have found issue. Hear me profess
Ay, if I be alive and your mind hold and your dinner
eat like wolves and fight like devils.
I fear my Julia would not deign my lines,
Good captain, let me be the interpreter.
She is abused, stol'n from me, and corrupted
Which here we came to spout against your town,
And with full line of his authority,
To set a form upon that indigest
The evils she hatch'd were not effected, so
With envy of each other's happiness,
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
If there be here German, or Dane, low Dutch,
Or put upon you what restraint and grievance
You take much pains to mend.
And not to be a rebel to her state,
You'ld call your children yours.
you? where a man may serve seven years for the loss
In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced,
Yea, but
Raising up wicked spirits from under ground,
I cannot tell: long is it since I saw him,
'Twixt his unkindness and his kindness, the one
As thine was to thy husband, and this boy
Further I say and further will maintain
In faith, too much,
Exit Provost
In their own shapes, for it can never be
Enter OSWALD
Drowns him, and takes his valour prisoner:
What, shall these papers lie like tell-tales here?
Such gain the cap of him that makes 'em fine,
This is a slight unmeritable man,
We here discharge your grace from being regent
Will have of these trim vanities!
That, doting on his own obsequious bondage,
For thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent
I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
Do well thrive by them and when they have lined
Where shall I find you?
You are in the right. Good night, lieutenant, I
If in Naples
Which can distinguish sound.
Not Erebus itself were dim enough
Deservedly confined into this rock,
The people 'twixt Philippi and this ground
Will yield us up.
True, and they are to meddle with none but the
Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'd
My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye,
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
What is it then to me, if impious war,
O the pernicious caitiff!
Let me embrace thee in my weary arms:
Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears
Upon the number'd beach? and can we not
O, make a league with me, till I have pleased
Therefore great France
This is the hand which, with a vow'd contract,
you stolen his? or both? pray, what's the news?
Thou wast that did preserve me. Thou didst smile.
How now, how now! what's the matter?
Never till then.
What should he be?
To view the field in safety and dispose
I shall, my lord.
And equity exiled your highness' land.
Kate, eat apace: and now, my honey love,
Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham,
Do not call it sin in me,
That shall be by and by: I remember the story.
But shall she marry him?
lamed me, I shall beg with it from door to door.
Even till we make the main and the aerial blue
Thus raps you? Are you well?
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
My master through his art foresees the danger
To cut off those that have offended him.
Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,
'Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep:
Should be inheritrix in Salique land:
It nothing ill becomes thee.
sin, then many an old host that I know is damned: if
That you have many enemies, that know not
When I was but your sister, I you brothers,
And all the secrets of our camp I'll show,
To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
And your horse now would make him an ass.
The lady stirs.
Exit GALLUS
Which I made known to Lucius, ere the stroke
All this my sister is, or else should be.
Earlier too, sir, if now I be one.
Duncan comes here to-night.
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom
Unto his princely brother presently?
No, good sir,
A noble servant to them, but he could not
And give them repetition to the life.
Or else by him my love deny,
SCENE I. Before an alehouse on a heath.
And shalt be ever.
All offices of nature should again
But to torment you with my bitter tongue!
No yellow in't, lest she suspect, as he does,
Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet
And quaff carouses to our mistress' health,
And therefore mine shall save my brothers' lives.
Makes this place Paradise.
Nay, my lord, he called you Jack, and said he would
By unkind usage, dangerous countenance,
And if thou dost not hide thee from the bear,
O'er-prized all popular rate, in my false brother
[To a Servingman]  What lady is that, which doth
So much against the mettle of your sex,
Is fully out.
Cutting the clouds towards Paphos and her son
Can censure 'scape, back-wounding calumny
Nay, a mother:
Renowned Pompey!
That counterfeit'st the person of a king?
For violent fires soon burn out themselves,
and on at pleasure.
Would not entreat for life?
To praise his faith which I would have dispraised.
Good man, those joyful tears show thy true heart:
Call't not a plot:
Shall harm Macbeth.
That hour destroy us?
Disturb him not, let him pass peaceably.
And, but for ceremony, such a wretch,
What, of Venice?
Before that England give the French the foil.
Whereas reproof, obedient and in order,
That we have made so much on. I had rather
But make amends now: get you gone,
And to the manner born, it is a custom
and this man out of prison?
With nought but truth. I have wasted myself out of
for ten year together, you'll be glad to give out a
That have this golden chance and know not why.
Where small experience grows. But in a few,
Then was the time for words: no going then,
Ten thousand soldiers with me I will take,
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
Then sigh not so,  and c.
Good angels guard thee from the boar's annoy!
speak with you.
But that my heart accordeth with my tongue,
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
Maintain a mourning ostentation
It may be so: but if he say it is so, he is, in
What then?
Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord,
To show yourself your father's son in deed
Neither.
Thus to make poor females mad.
Because it is an enemy to thee,
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
Wrought he not well that painted it?
The court awards it, and the law doth give it.
On this removed issue, plague for her
An honest country lord, as I am, beaten
What is your will?
Trumpets sound. Enter ALCIBIADES with his powers
Yet show some pity.
Mowbray, impartial are our eyes and ears:
Mine heir from forth the beggars of the world,
So shall you share all that he doth possess,
That he which hath no stomach to this fight,
To County Paris: then comes she to me,
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK ANTONY, LEPIDUS, and OCTAVIA
The king from Eltham I intend to steal
I have tumbled past the throw, and in his praise
Before our army. Thy Pacorus, Orodes,
Is guilty of this fault and not my son.
But who comes here, led by a lusty Goth?
And gorgeous as the sun at midsummer,
Amen, so you be none.
Men must learn now with pity to dispense,
Than ever Greek did compass in his arms,
Wither one rose, and let the other flourish,
Till George be pack'd with post-horse up to heaven.
If I return, I shall be post indeed,
I'll tell you in your ear.
And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe.
The Dauphin, whom of succors we entreated,
Exit
Cousin, farewell, and, uncle, bid him so:
I saw him at the Duke Alencon's once,
When I did him at this advantage take,
Cleopatra,
You may be pleased to catch at mine intent
SCENE V. The same. A street near the gate.
In courtly company or at my beads,
Is Talbot slain? then I will slay myself,
AENEAS passes
My arms such eel-skins stuff'd, my face so thin
There was never a truer rhyme. Let us cast away
The messengers of Venice stay the meat,
But who comes here? the new-deliver'd Hastings?
unworthy thinking: I dare you to this match: here's my ring.
a dishclout of Jaquenetta's, and that a' wears next
Master, knock the door hard.
Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows
Till famine cling thee: if thy speech be sooth,
Thrice-nobler than myself!
Doth make an earthquake of nobility.
after! come, 'tis a foolish saying.
Ay, madam,
Relates in purpose only to Achilles.
He that meets Hector issues from our choice
Shalt feel our justice, in whose easiest passage
Set armed discord 'twixt these perjured kings!
sores, and such as indeed were never soldiers, but
sleep? Master Ford awake! awake, Master Ford!
Enthroned i' the market-place, did sit alone,
the map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known
Jack shall have Jill,
And, but she spoke it dying, I would not
God b' wi' you, with all my heart.
Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
Yes, but it held not:
Herself the glory of a creditor,
The other for some while a friend.
tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.
ACT II
Did haunt you in the field.
Will bless the king: and is not this course pious?
Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb
Which renders good for bad, blessings for curses.
Have I not here the best cards for the game,
You must take your chance,
Thy hand is but a finger to my fist,
And, for the time shall not seem tedious,
Enter PERICLES, with his train, LYSIMACHUS, HELICANUS, MARINA, and a Lady
oeillades, sometimes the beam of her view gilded my
And when it's writ, for my sake read it over,
Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
Shook down my mellow hangings, nay, my leaves,
sigh like Tom o' Bedlam. O, these eclipses do
Where?
Among nine bad if one be good,
Then thou art damned.
I'll ask him what he would. Did you call, sir?
A good and virtuous nature may recoil
At your own house, there he unarms him.
They sing:
That youth and observation copied there,
And since you know you cannot see yourself
And look how well my garments sit upon me,
What darest thou venture?
In every thing I wait upon his will.
He hath a daily beauty in his life
So glad of this as they I cannot be,
against me,
him our commission, talk no more.
The lunatic, the lover and the poet
They were given me by Claudio, he received them
Unto this king of smiles, this Bolingbroke,--
The tears have got small victory by that,
And after this let Caesar seat him sure,
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS and RUGBY
Exeunt CHATILLON and PEMBROKE
All is well yet.
For general sovereignty, and that he will'd me
Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love,
That rail'd against our person: we consider
Re-enter RUGBY
And yet--O, see the monstrousness of man
Were I the general, thou shouldst have my office
Hoisted sail and made away for Brittany.
You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost
As a fair day in summer, wondrous fair.
yet look after thee? Wilt thou, after the expense
Well, let us to the king: there is that in this
There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and
dream. Here, here, here be my keys: ascend my
To the ground, and all the world shall mourn her.
Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham,
O, like a book of sport thou'lt read me o'er,
With all the gracious utterance thou hast
Especially he hath incurred the everlasting
Since you are like to see the king before me,
Hark, canst thou hear me? I will play the swan.
as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage
Farewell, and thanks.
Even so. Heaven keep your honour!
By heaven, I would do it.
Now let hot AEtna cool in Sicily,
Stand farther. Come, proceed.
What shall be done to him?
I do remember in this shepherd boy
Infused itself in thee, for thy desires
My unprovided body, lanced mine arm:
his horn full of good news: my master will be here
Sir, grieve not you, you are welcome notwithstanding.
Enter RICHARD PLANTAGENET
At ample point all that I did possess,
O, let me pray before I take my death!
And die in music.
Bear that proportion to my flesh and blood
'Tis just the fashion: wherefore do you look
How silent is this town!--Ho! murder! murder!--
Where they did spend a sad and bloody hour,
As he will lose his head ere give consent
Till he hath found a time to pay us home:
Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me
Than on the torture of the mind to lie
to-morrow four o'clock.
As bid me tell my tale in express words,
'Tis a spell, you see, of much  power: you know the
Here, with a cup that's stored unto the brim,--
To myself nothing. Speak the truth, Seleucus.
I would the college of the cardinals
That's all I reck.
More blessed hap did ne'er befall our state.
Let him be Caesar.
In honour follows Coriolanus.
As if there were some monster in his thought
heart was not consenting to.
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
There's the point.
Wherefore, bold peasant,
Be you his eunuch, and your mute I'll be:
impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet of his
If of life you keep a care,
So your desires are yours.
I cannot speak of this. Come now, your promise.
To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently--
Did I go through a tempest dropping fire.
The ear more quick of apprehension makes,
Simple, plain Clarence! I do love thee so,
This is the cause that I, poor Margaret,
Exit
Hector, then 'tis wars.
To be ashamed to be my father's child!
That whatsoever I did bid thee do,
Therefore, away with her, and use her as you will,
Then I must be thy lady: but I know
I never did like molestation view
Know you where your are, sir?
Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this
Purge all infection from our air whilst you
Beyond all limit of what else i' the world
arrant cowards, there's no equity stirring: there's
Of your fair flesh, to be cut off and taken
Is not this your son, my lord?
which thou hast often heard of and it is known to
That's because the one is painted and the other out
Away, my disposition, and possess me
Fiery? the fiery duke? Tell the hot duke that--
Your very worshipful and loving friends,
Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you
To Rome of our success. You, Titus Lartius,
But that the next heir should succeed and reign.
chamberlain, for thou variest no more from picking
To think me as well a sister as a wife,
For I am falser than vows made in wine:
This battle fares like to the morning's war,
Till Hymen's torch be lighted: but vain,
This dead king to the living king I'll bear
Or he that makes his generation messes
My casket and my jewels, and bid Nicander
Why, she's neither fish nor flesh, a man knows not
his guts in his head, I'll tell you what I say of
What then remains, we being thus arrived
No, trust me, she is peevish, sullen, froward,
His flight was madness: when our actions do not,
And bow'd his eminent top to their low ranks,
Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
For the enfreed Antenor, the fair Cressid:
Untied I still my virgin knot will keep.
Hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side,
Should censure thus on lovely gentlemen.
And prosperous be thy life in peace and war!
And, princes, look you strongly arm to meet him.
That you insult, exult, and all at once,
As calling home our exiled friends abroad
Are come to play a pleasant comedy,
My mother's son did get your father's heir,
I did beget her, all the parish knows:
To one thing constant never:
For your claim, fair sister,
proportion to live quietly, and so give over.
In storm perpetual, could not move the gods
Mine eye hath well examined his parts
Wherein my sword had not impressure made
game: ware horns, ho!
the fat knight with the great belly-doublet: he
Why, what is it, my lord?
And maidens call it love-in-idleness.
were of my mind,--
Gadshill lies to-night in Rochester: I have bespoke
A little water clears us of this deed:
Pointing at OSWALD
O, that once more you knew but what you are!
And so I am, I am.
Did he confess it?
Values itself so highly that to her
Exit Gratiano
Something too liberal. Pray thee, take pain
And fled, as he hears since, to Burgundy.
Until the golden circuit on my head,
Re-enter Nurse
Then let the earth be drunken with our blood:
Among which number, Cassius, be you one--
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
necessary and meet me to-morrow night in Eastcheap,
Into as many gobbets will I cut it
Give us the foils. Come on.
He seeks my life, his reason well I know:
And made their bends adornings: at the helm
The people do admit you, and are summon'd
The sinewy vigour of the traveller.
Where Henry and dame Margaret kneel'd to me
Quit all offences with as clear excuse
[Advancing]             Ay, so thou dost,
I will be correspondent to command
We'll ne'er come there again.'
god's gold,
And so, I hope, he came by't. Back my ring:
And were they to be ruled, and not to rule,
And likewise will visit thee with mine.
Felt so much cold as over shoes in snow?
I'll make a peace between your soul and you.
Cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit,
Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,
But by some power it is,--my love to Hermia,
Exeunt, leading KATHARINE
you'll undertake her no more?
could wish he would modestly examine himself, to see
Cordelia leaves you: I know you what you are,
What's in't is precious, if you are sick at sea,
Marry, sir, by my wife, who, if she had been a woman
'Tis like the commons, rude unpolish'd hinds,
I was once before him for getting a wench with child.
This cell's my court: here have I few attendants
Rome more. Had you rather Caesar were living and
Sir Valentine, I care not for her, I,
Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
Due to the Moor my lord.
of idiot worshippers, here's a letter for thee.
Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's,
That rheumatic diseases do abound:
Peace, I say.
With looking on his life.
sworn not to give regard to you. Farewell, and come
And with the southern clouds contend in tears,
To feeling as to sight? or art thou but
are, you must have the patience to hear it.
Since they, so few, watch such a multitude.
That Rome holds of his name, wherein obscurely
Than thou and John in manners, being as like
Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends
I am a scribbled form, drawn with a pen
Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove:
Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down:
but 'tis a Valentine.
Shall hoodwink this mischance: therefore speak softly.
If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
mulled, deaf, sleepy, insensible, a getter of more
Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.
And 'tis not wisdom thus to second grief
By virtue specially to be achieved.
If presently you will take horse with him,
wickedness: old folks, you know, have discretion,
What will you do? Let's not consort with them:
yet, till my mother be dead: but what though? Yet I
twenty to follow mine own teaching. The brain may
On a dissension of a doit, break out
Sweet, now, silence!
Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life,
Than was his loss, to course your flying flags,
Had been a little ratsbane for thy sake!
What wilt thou do, renowned Faulconbridge?
Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams.
Which I must act: briefness and fortune, work!
Sitting down with them
That's my fear. I pray you, have a continent
When I shall think: or Phoebus' steeds are founder'd,
And lay the summer's dust with showers of blood
That sunder'd friends greet in the hour of death.
Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably: come,
Yet, by your leave, the wind was very high,
Ay, this is he that took King Henry's chair,
He stamps with his foot and the soldiers show themselves
of my flesh and blood, he that cherishes my flesh
By Janus, I think no.
You only speak from your distracted soul,
loved her: the ballad is very pitiful and as true.
Like to a step-dame or a dowager
By heavens, I'll go:
I pray you, daughter, sing, or express yourself in a
Are hired to bear their staves: either thou, Macbeth,
And I had that which any inferior might
As this hath made me. Who was he that said
My name is Edgar, and thy father's son.
Because my poor child is a prisoner.
But that which ends all counsel, true redress,
Lord of lords!
A merrier hour was never wasted there.
Nor in a way so chaste, since my desires
Shall we hear from you, Catesby, ere we sleep?
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
This is the pit, and this the elder-tree.
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
A fool, a fool! I met a fool i' the forest,
That lift your vassal hands against my head
Cousins, you know what you have to do. O, I cry you
Look, sir.
And that small model of the barren earth
And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
Enter SEYTON
Come hither, come hither, come hither:
Less appear so in comforting your evils,
And by their hands this grace of kings must die,
Give him direction for this merry bond,
I pray you, what is he?
Away, my Thetis!
And come to Padua, careless of your life?
Sir, I bade them take away you.
By long and vehement suit I was seduced
And call'd mine Percy, his Plantagenet!
'Sblood!--
We have been up and down to seek him.
sins of my mother should be visited upon me.
All murders past do stand excused in this:
And lend my best attention. What's thy name?
And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine,
Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.
No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
Was this the face that faced so many follies,
The worms were hallow'd that did breed the silk,
I'll put it on.
That dogg'd the mighty army of the Dauphin?
Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo,
Renown'd in Padua for her scolding tongue.
Are your doors lock'd?
With your crown'd brother and these your contracted
Nay, but regard him well.
mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on, leaving
Their brave pavilions: Priam's six-gated city,
My grief was at the height before thou camest,
[Aside]  He heard not that.
In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius.
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Last thing he did, dear queen,
As cannons overcharged with double cracks, so they
And let confusion live! Plagues, incident to men,
into the water. Mistress Ford desires you to come suddenly.
As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
None, I protest: but I'll give you a pottle of
A prince's courage. Away, I prithee.
Is topping your white ewe. Arise, arise,
Denied me to come in--return, and force
With dignities becoming your estates.
SCENE VI. London. The Tower.
Are lethargied--Ha! waking? 'tis not so.
York, I commend this kind submission:
Bernardo has my place.
Exeunt
Thou sayest true, i' faith, so they must, for your
Duke Alencon's.
I humbly thank your highness,
Yet I fear him,
Most humbly therefore bending to your state,
Since you can cog, I'll play no more with you.
The sun will set before I shall discharge
their faction: but it was a strong composure a fool
Rises
The honourable blood of Lancaster,
Wert thou the Hector
Enter, from one side, AENEAS, and Servant with a  torch, from the other, PARIS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, DIOMEDES, and others, with torches
out!' that any madness I ever yet beheld seemed but
the stile, this way.
God give us leisure for these rites of love!
And baited it with all the unmuzzled thoughts
Seventh sweet, adieu:
Thursday is near, lay hand on heart, advise:
And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you
To the Senators
I'll now taste of thy drug.
a bodkin's point.
So doth the cony struggle in the net.
Mine eyes
my foes, sir I profit in the knowledge of myself,
You'll not be perjured, 'tis a hateful thing,
looks, your red-lattice phrases, and your
This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
Stay, slave, I must employ thee:
God save your majesty! my royal cousin, teach you
Nay, I beseech you, sir, be not out with me: yet,
I know this is a joyful trouble to you,
Therefore we'll knock.
Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd-at stabs
My hand is ready, may it do him ease.
me see, what think you of falling in love?
never tire.
Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving,
And to be judged by him.
An you call him a-down-a.
King John did fly an hour or two before
Thy adversary's wife doth pray for thee.
That the strict fates had pleased you had brought her hither,
By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.
Not till it leave the rider in the mire.
Would tempt unto a close exploit of death?
So much misconstrued in his wantonness.
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
Doth noise abroad, Navarre hath made a vow,
Wherefore's this noise?
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late:
Is not itself, nor have we won one foot,
Oft expectation fails and most oft there
[Aside]  Now, by the gods, I do applaud his courage.
The juice of it on sleeping eye-lids laid
I have not, my lord, deserved it.
Of what I feel: I am all patience.
There is no truth at all i' the oracle:
He that has a house to put's head in has a good
Worthy his frowning at: their discipline,
you give me any conserves, give me conserves of
Know him I shall, I am well sure of it:
Hector will challenge him.
And hate the idle pleasures of these days.
Our masquing mates by this time for us stay.
I something fear my father's wrath, but nothing--
Send for him, good uncle.
I should have begg'd I might have been employ'd.
To the April day again. Come, damned earth,
There is no woman's sides
And if not that, I bring you witnesses,
I have no words:
The ousel cock so black of hue,
Sevenfold above itself, no gift to him,
He did, my lord.
Master, is this Mistress Satan?
It hath to climb. The general's disdain'd
Adieu, poor soul, that takest thy leave of it!
'Tis true, indeed, so your daughter says: 'Shall
I told him of myself, which was as much
Enter GLOUCESTER, KING LEAR, KENT, Fool, and EDGAR
Or know not what we are.
But not by him.
Am I that name, Iago?
What conjuration and what mighty magic,
Let me say 'amen' betimes, lest the devil cross my
of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,
step on. They say he has been fencer to the Sophy.
With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks,
SCENE VI. Another part of the plains.
As honour without breach of honour may
You should enjoy, were you this country's king,
ACT IV
worse payment.
Nay, temperately, your promise.
That made you break this enterprise to me?
angled for mine eyes, caught the water though not
Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak,
Let them set on at once, for I perceive
Mean and right poor, for that pure blood of mine
And thence to France shall we convey you safe,
To bend the fatal instruments of war
What I have done being young, or what would do
Above the sense of sense, so sensible
Did I say 'better'?
But when to my good lord I prove untrue,
being bid to ask what he would of the king, desired
SCENE VIII. Before KING HENRY'S pavilion.
But time will not permit: all is uneven,
Sweet blowse, you are a beauteous blossom, sure.
Doomsday is near, die all, die merrily.
You use me well, Master Ford, do you?
The trumpets sound. They embrace, and exeunt
And so, God be with him! Here comes newer comfort.
Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me?
Let me embrace too. 'O heart,' as the goodly saying is,
Into a great estate: when he was poor,
I am no fee'd post, lady, keep your purse:
Go thou with him, and when it is thy hap
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents,
Reignier of France, I give thee kingly thanks,
Away, you three-inch fool! I am no beast.
Well, sir.
Once more, take her hence.
In each eye, one: swear by your double self,
And his brave son being twain.
beat it out of my hat: did you see my jewel?
thought a good student, but to be said an honest man
recovered the king, and undone me. I have wedded
Making another head to fight again.
We attend his lordship, pray, signify so much.
Swifter than the wandering moon.
Repent but you that you shall lose your friend,
That bloody spoil: thou slave, thou wretch, thou coward!
We'll betray him finely.
An't please your grace, here my commission stays,
They'll sit by the fire, and presume to know
they hold up Adam's profession.
it would have run all out.
Magni Dominator poli,
Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour.
He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester town,
And no man see me more.
Ay, with celerity, find Hector's purpose
I am a fool
We and our wives and children all will fight
Vell.
Behind our rock, and let it to the sea,
Enter DOGBERRY, VERGES, and the Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO
Is't real that I see?
Heaven let me bear it! you granting of my suit,
But she is arm'd for him and keeps her guard
Enter trumpets, sounding, then two Aldermen, Lord  Mayor, Garter, CRANMER, NORFOLK with his marshal's  staff, SUFFOLK, two Noblemen bearing great  standing-bowls for the christening-gifts, then  four Noblemen bearing a canopy, under which the  Duchess of Norfolk, godmother, bearing the child  richly habited in a mantle,  and c., train borne by a  Lady, then follows the Marchioness Dorset, the  other godmother, and Ladies. The troop pass once about the stage, and Garter speaks
To have nor eyes nor ears nor thought, then say
And is become the bellows and the fan
I will something affect the letter, for it argues facility.
Do not throw from you: and you, my lords, farewell:
This is a slave, whose easy-borrow'd pride
A man of thy profession and degree,
[Within]	Heaven secure him!
Crying, his stones, his daughter, and his ducats.
what I would speak of concerns him.
Dear lady,--
Good night, good doctor.
Well fare you, gentleman: give me your hand,
Beshrew the witch! with venomous wights she stays
What is he?
Was crown'd in Paris but at nine months old.
Here I have a pilot's thumb,
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
Whilst that Lavinia 'tween her stumps doth hold
And beat them backward home.
And so shall starve with feeding. Come, let's go:
a kiss in fee-farm! build there, carpenter, the air
And if thou want'st a cord, the smallest thread
Prepare, madam, prepare!
That I cannot look through. Away, I prithee,
Well it shall be so. But there is two hard things,
Go, take their bodies hence.
Which we will niggard with a little rest.
Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
LAERTES wounds HAMLET, then in scuffling, they change rapiers, and HAMLET wounds LAERTES
Have I not heard the sea puff'd up with winds
Upon thy doings: thousand escapes of wit
In all the rest show'd a most noble patience.
And so good morrow to you every one.
A pretty tale: it may be you have heard it,
Please it your grace, on to the state-affairs:
That feed'st me with the very name of meat:
A justice of peace sometimes may be beholding to his
have them this morning examined before your worship.
But what of this?
With Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hour
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
Nay, I'll ne'er believe that, I have to show to the contrary.
That lock up your restraint. For you, Posthumus,
SCENE I. Elsinore. A platform before the castle.
Like to the Garter's compass, in a ring:
And set the triple crown upon his head:
In borrow'd robes?
'Faith, he to-night hath boarded a land carack:
The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
You're servant to the Count Orsino, youth.
Enter the Lords to RICHMOND, sitting in his tent
What wrong is this unto the prince your son!
To wish myself much better, yet, for you
Since guiltiness I know not, but yet I feel I fear.
Exit Hostess
If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit  down,
What is she?
And she shall be my love, or else my queen.--
That gave him out incurable,--
Long mayst thou live in Richard's seat to sit,
They fight
Almost I had.
And thou a kingdom, all of you allegiance:
Why, 'tis a boisterous and a cruel style.
But we both obey,
ACT II
Look'd wondering each at other.
Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized:
Of that integrity which should become't,
He brings you figs.
with these tidings.
Exit an Attendant
But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
Besides, all French and France exclaims on thee,
Here to this devil, to deliver you.
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Then are we all undone.
Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,
To RICHMOND
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
Master Barnardine! you must rise and be hanged.
That's no matter: the feet might bear the verses.
My lord, we will not.
If wounding, then it was to show my skill,
Be simple answerer, for we know the truth.
And pray that I may repossess the crown.
For all the rest is held at such a rate
'O, bless my brother!' Husband win, win brother,
How the rogue roar'd!
At your pleasure, my good lord. Who's within
By thrusting out a torch from yonder tower,
And she was wean'd,--I never shall forget it,--
Exit
chains: no hearing, no feeling, but my sir's song,
Exit
Exit
Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste.
The painting is almost the natural man,
Give but that portion which yourself proposed,
With that keen appetite that he sits down?
This letter is mistook, it importeth none here,
And strew'd repentent ashes on his head.
In shape profane.
But you, Sir Thurio, are not sharp enough,
Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like
The second, silver, which this promise carries,
him.
Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
Look to't, think on't, I do not use to jest.
I am not drunk now, I can stand well enough, and
Let's leave the hermit pity with our mothers,
In dangerous wars, whilst you securely slept,
For thine own bowels, which do call thee sire,
O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou
Mayst smile at this: thou shalt not choose but go:
To bring this matter to the wished end.
Say, ay, and of a boy.
Look to it well and say you are well warn'd.
Exit
will sing the savageness out of a bear: of so high
His noble nephew here in virtue's nest,
How now! a madman! Why, thou peevish sheep,
Madam, I have a touch of your condition,
My child? away with't! Even thou, that hast
Not so well apparell'd
And bring me how he takes my death.
Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
Was Cressid here?
Your need to sustain,
Under these hard conditions as this time
Against my lady's kingdom: 'tis enough
Go, hide thee behind the arras: the rest walk up
Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour?
Re-enter LUCIUS
Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run,
Makes many Thetis' sons.
What, is Antonio here?
Howlings attend it: how hast thou the heart,
Are the indentures drawn? shall we be gone?
I part you. The falcon as the tercel, for all the
And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
Enter a Messenger, with two heads and a hand
That die unmarried, ere they can behold
For here's a young and sweating devil here,
To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone,
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
Well, would I were gently put out of office
My lord protector's hawks do tower so well,
other day. I said, thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,'
ACT V
Shall I be heard?
There she appeared indeed, or my reporter devised
Exeunt
And if thou be not then created York,
Did never sonnet for her sake compile,
Poor Tom's a-cold.
Than doth your brother that hath banish'd you.
Well, I must do't:
wenches' song, that he would not stir his pettitoes
I would adventure.
No tidings of him?
Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have used thee,
The breaking of so great a thing should make
And lose advantage, which doth ever cool
If I say sooth, I must report they were
Shall not behold her face at ample view,
The fatal balls of murdering basilisks:
They have chose a consul that will from them take
My countryman,--a Roman by a Roman
That I to your assistance do make love,
But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen:
Or something hath the nothing that I grieve:
Upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood
'As by lot, God wot,'
The effect of my intent is to cross theirs:
Me believe it! you may as soon make her that you
BRUTUS and LUCILIUS converse apart
I'll have this secret from thy heart, or rip
And in the neck of that, task'd the whole state:
What we can do, we'll do, to do you service.
Of many our contriving friends in Rome
We cannot weigh our brother with ourself:
Hath clapp'd his tail between his legs and cried:
Thou almost makest me waver in my faith
labouring men, and therefore should we be
Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
I have them ready.
And entrails feed the sacrificing fire,
I had fear'd death, of all the men i' the world
Lay hold upon him, Priam, hold him fast:
tell you you have good faces. If you see this in
Whoever charges on his forward breast,
I told you, my lord.
But moody and dull melancholy,
Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me:
First, I ask thee what they have done, thirdly, I
I tell thee, man, 'tis better with me now
To see thy son and heir more early down.
No, as I shall be saved.
Thus to have said,
I thank thee: thou shalt not lose by it.
You Capulet, shall go along with me:
Exeunt
franklins say it, I'll swear it.
Endows a man but he.
A very handsome man.
Nothing to be were better. This was my master,
prophecy, hark you: I advise you, let me not find
Cressid comes forth to him.
A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
Sir, as I think.
Thou art my heir, the rest I wish thee gather:
Say that I slew them not?
More light and light, more dark and dark our woes!
And seal'd between us.
Stamped in gold, but that's insculp'd upon,
The king was weeping-ripe for a good word.
That thou couldst say 'This hand is Grecian all,
If we are mark'd to die, we are enow
Charmian!
To be whipped! What's his fault?
Forbear to sleep the nights, and fast the days,
Whilst you abide here.
Where shall be shown you all was found with her,
To her decrepit, sick and bedrid father:
Yet keeps his book uncross'd: no life to ours.
Good morrow, Ned.
And the ebb'd man, ne'er loved till ne'er worth love,
I crave no other, nor no better man.
to your lips? would they were clyster-pipes for your sake!
He and myself
Didst break that vow, and with thy treacherous blade
Your sword upon a woman?
But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee,
Directly.
Enter a Master and a Boatswain
Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
Neither my place nor aught I heard of business
Their mother's bed-chamber should not be safe
As his alliance will confirm our peace
Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer
We will extenuate rather than enforce:
The Volsces whom you serve, you might condemn us,
What news from Oxford? hold those justs and triumphs?
The king, of his own royal disposition,
That I may kindly give one fainting kiss.
I humbly thank your highness.
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
Ay.
Kinsmen of mine, three at the least, that have
To give it due content.
But for your private satisfaction,
Nothing, but this is so.
Hold thy peace:
In the same fashion as you gave in charge,
You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
Then if she fear, or be to blame,
send ministers to me, asses, and do all they can to
And he that stands upon a slippery place
Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick, peace,
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
And when I mount, alive may I not light,
[Reciting to himself]  'When we for recompense have
Enter COUNTESS and Clown
Undaunted spirit in a dying breast!
Perplex'd in the extreme, of one whose hand,
Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
Come with thy two-hand sword.
The lives of those that he did lead to fight
Lest it should bite its master, and so prove,
hath no drowning mark upon him, his complexion is
beard, your orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain
is love a generation of vipers? Sweet lord, who's
But they will pluck away his natural cause
Will take away your life.
Exit
Nay, this was but his dream.
I did never see such pitiful rascals.
Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?
It would beseem the Lord Northumberland
But that the good mind of Camillo tardied
Go, bear Patroclus' body to Achilles,
Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it!
the seaside, browsing of ivy. Good luck, an't be thy
pleading so well for his life. Away with him! he
to the person written unto: 'Your ladyship's in all
Open your purse, that the money and the matter may
Cyprus. Othello, the fortitude of the place is best
Let's levy men, and beat him back again.
Whilst man and master laugh my woes to scorn.
To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars
Look by and by to have thy sons with thee.
as I expect my revenge. That part thou, Pisanio,
His uncle York, where I first bow'd my knee
thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona,
Exeunt all but RICHMOND
For me, the gold of France did not seduce,
He seems to be a stranger, but his present is
Re-enter LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS and MUTIUS, with their swords bloody
To Servant, giving a paper
That sport best pleases that doth least know how:
To-morrow then belike shall be the day,
Publius, how now! how now, my masters!
You,'--or 'I would request you,'--or 'I would
Let's teach ourselves that honourable stop,
Obscures the show of evil? In religion,
Will your grace command me any service to the
Nay, this shall not hedge us out: we'll hear you
The thunder-like percussion of thy sounds,
Like a poor bark, of sails and tackling reft,
I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot on.
His majesty hath straitly given in charge
In peace, and part this body and my soul
I gin to be aweary of the sun,
All! I know not what you call all, but if I fought
Patroclus, let us feast him to the height.
Most incident to maids, bold oxlips and
Look'st thou pale, France? do not let go thy hand.
Then be still.
I may not prove inferior to yourself.
I summon your grace to his majesty's parliament,
Enter SILVIA, attended
My wife, more careful for the latter-born,
This grave shall have a living monument:
The king shall have my service: but my prayers
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck.
So fast they follow, your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
Forced by the tide to combat with the wind,
Shall send between the red rose and the white
may, though they cannot praise us, as little accuse
Exeunt
Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy.
In vain! his service done
Miss that which one unworthier may attain,
This I'll report, dear lady.
Then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar,
So happy is your brother.
Things growing are not ripe until their season
Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanor!
They of those marches, gracious sovereign,
Deliver this with modesty to the queen.
He will be talking.
With these weak women's fears: a noble spirit,
As far as toucheth my particular,
That like a father you will deal with him
His purpose surfeiting, he sends a warrant
chez les narines de feu! When I bestride him, I
I shall do that that is reason.
If Cassius might have ruled.
devise laws for the blood, but a hot temper leaps
You were as good to shoot against the wind.
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
Your worth, your greatness and nobility.
SCENE III. Plains in Gascony.
That stretch their duties nicely.
The rest were ragged, old, and beggarly,
love-songs in their barks.
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
All that belongs to this.
'As false as Cressid.'
Andronicus himself did take it up.
learning, is indeed deceased, or, as you would say
shall be dry again.
So I do: what's the matter?
For with his soul fled all my worldly solace,
the yarn she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill
Than I have here proclaim'd thee.
Mine honour for his truth: who being so heighten'd,
Give me thy hand.
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
it, is my mother, and this my father, a vengeance
'Twas not a haud credo, 'twas a pricket.
O miserable lady! But, for me,
Exeunt WARWICK and SALISBURY
To offer service to your enemy,
If he do, sure, he cannot weep't back again.
I have forgot your name, but, sure, that part
Chop off his head, man, somewhat we will do:
Or Signior Gremio, you, know any such,
Airy succeeders of intestate joys,
I do, hang me, i' faith, I will not. O, but her
Then tell me, whither were I best to send him?
That were the cause of my imprisonment.
Many sharp reasons to defeat the law.
Presenting LUCENTIO
Than I, that have not well the gift of tongue,
Did an Egyptian to my mother give,
May hang no longer on me: throw my heart
The shadow'd livery of the burnish'd sun,
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
O diable!
And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn,
Thy loving father, Hamlet.
What are you made of? you'll nor fight nor fly:
If fires be hot, knives sharp, or waters deep,
With such love as 'tis now, the murkiest den,
Some of them will fall to-morrow, I hope.
Should with a bond of air, strong as the axle-tree
Hath she forsworn me?
Thus far, with rough and all-unable pen,
thank God you are rid of a knave.
I should be wise, for honesty's a fool
Ha, ha! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied
After this golden day of victory.
With four or five most vile and ragged foils,
shape of two countries at once, as, a German from
Ay, and worn in the cap of a tooth-drawer.
Of York, is it not?
Whose present grace to present slaves and servants
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together,
what is 'that' but 'that,' and 'is' but 'is'?
Have I with all my full affections
But sorrow flouted at is double death.
Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it.
Dogs leap the hatch, and all are fled.
The night-crow cried, aboding luckless time,
And, for the good report I hear of you
By heaven, I love thee better than myself,
I do believe,
Or shall we cut away our hands, like thine?
Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,
Longing for what it had not, nay, the dust
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
Amazement shall drive courage from the state,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
What may she not? She may, yea, marry, may she--
have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity
And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
That my woe-wearied tongue is mute and dumb,
Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
And not have title of an earldom here.
As I thought, dead, and have in vain said many
No matter whither, so you come not here.
the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How now,
mouth, I would bite, if I had my liberty, I would do
As Hector, I assure you: and in the managing of
And how mightily some other times we drown our gain
the door: shall we be merry?
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
To draw conditions of a friendly peace,
Where? at the senate-house?
Come, sir.
And buy a rope's end: that will I bestow
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,
his displeasure, which at this instant so rageth
Good time of day unto my gracious lord!
This is of purpose laid by some that hate me--
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
His nobleness well acted, which your death
comes this night to Messina.
Up from my cabin,
Mark but my fall, and that that ruin'd me.
How I have loved my king and commonweal:
A sight to vex the father's soul withal.
By your renouncement an immortal spirit,
In conflict that you get the sun of them.
Lord marshal, let me kiss my sovereign's hand,
From whence he intercepted did return
Be satisfied, dear God, with our true blood,
Was that the king, that spurred his horse so hard
head, 'tis pride: but why, why? let him show us the
Hast thou read truth?
As, painfully to pore upon a book
And here I stand: judge, my masters.
Heave him away upon your winged thoughts
And Smith the weaver,--
And all that we upon this side the sea,
Who freely give to every one that comes
I speak in understanding, you are, I know't:
I love not to see wretchedness o'er charged
and, I think, no other treasure to give your
fellows in the world, an a man could light on them,
Wall holds up his fingers
Hath power to keep you king in spite of all.
Give dreadful note of preparation:
appearance of a naked blind boy in her naked seeing
How begot, how nourished?
The more I stay, the more I'll succor thee.
with the gallows and what with poverty, I am
Her love is not the hare that I do hunt:
Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull,
On serious business, craving quick dispatch,
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
The queen, my lord, is dead.
Come, come to me,
Ay,
They'll roar him in again. Tullus Aufidius,
Here come the clusters.
When such bad dealings must be seen in thought.
in her body. No, Hector is not a better man than Troilus.
And ears so cloy'd importantly as now,
Have robb'd my strong-knit sinews of their strength,
Holds idleness your subject, I should take you
He cannot choose. I am most fortunate, thus
Be that the uttermost, and fail not then.
Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tuae!
gallant service.
in the heart of the world, and especially of my own
What, is this so?
That, whiles warm life plays in that infant's veins,
Weak men must fall, for heaven still guards the right.
To want the bridegroom when the priest attends
To-morrow's vengeance on the head of Richard.
Is not this just? for I shall sutler be
to him shortly as bitter as coloquintida. She must
As in thy red rays thou dost sink to-night,
Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites?
[Aside to DONALBAIN]        Nor our strong sorrow
Two lovely berries moulded on one stem,
Of Sicily, Sardinia, and I must
Could I but catch it for them.
time: after your death you were better have a bad
Must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes?
and I will have more time to prepare me, or they
And she will sing the song that pleaseth you
But neither my good word nor princely favour:
Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain,
The reasons of our state I cannot yield,
A gentler heart did never sway in court,
wilt thou do this?
I do confess the vices of my blood,
And it grows fouler.
You have, by fortune and his highness' favours,
Either past or not arrived to pith and puissance,
Mad ire and wrathful fury makes me weep,
We shall proceed with Angelo.
Even in the downfall of his mellow'd years,
Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
services, that you would think that I had a hundred
'Affectionate servant,
down the door? How now! what's the matter?
DON
That is the word. I thee defy again.
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed.
And there an end, but now they rise again,
Exeunt, fighting. Alarums
If not to answer, you might haply think
Why, then she lives.
Dull not device by coldness and delay.
In proof whereof, there is my honour's pawn,
But owe thy pride thyself.
That thus he suffers for.
Exeunt
He threw his wounded arm and kiss'd his lips,
Like rats, oft bite the holy cords a-twain
Of greater time than I shall show to be.
But thus, I trust, you will not marry her.
Re-enter QUEEN
Thou, Julia, thou hast metamorphosed me,
I know the young gentlewoman, she has good gifts.
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and others
arithmetic! Why the devil came you between us? I
Destroy'd the sweet'st companion that e'er man
And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
You know, none so well, none so well as you, of my
not but to do myself much right, or you much shame.
My loving lord, Dumain is mortified:
Woe above woe! grief more than common grief!
Which I have done, because unworthily
According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet diseases.
To fly the boar before the boar pursues,
Not Priamus and Hecuba on knees,
friend and I confess me knit to thy deserving with
Be brief, I pray you:
Alarum. Enter KING RICHARD III and RICHMOND, they  fight. KING RICHARD III is slain. Retreat and  flourish. Re-enter RICHMOND, DERBY bearing the crown, with divers other Lords
Gramercy! wouldst thou aught with me?
Now, by my troth, if I had been remember'd,
Go with my brothers to my lords of England:
That he would steal away so guilty-like,
Third, or fourth, or fifth borough, I'll answer him
Your father's image is so hit in you,
When time shall serve, let but the herald cry,
And morsels unctuous, greases his pure mind,
I mean, my head upon your lap?
That you do see? could thought, without this object,
And will be partner of your weal or woe.
Where is the king?
And though I have for barbarism spoke more
But I shall laugh at this a twelve-month hence,
[Advancing]  Welcome, good Robin.
finds no other advantage in the process but only the
not to dog him: they say he keeps a Trojan
You were best to call them generally, man by man,
Set on, and leave no ceremony out.
That mortal ears might hardly endure the din?
Breeds him and makes him of his bed-chamber,
Here is the Talbot: who would speak with him?
And that unaptness made your minister,
The dishes are uncovered and seen to be full of warm water
Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
More near my life, I fear,--with my weak wit,
O, learn'd indeed were that astronomer
Mistress Page would desire you to send her your
If not, to compass her I'll use my skill.
Like him by chance. Yet give us our dispatch:
Forbear, here's company.
Enter ROMEO
No, not till Thursday, there is time enough.
What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with,
As shall become your highness, where you may
Patch'd with foul moles and eye-offending marks,
Froth, I would not have you acquainted with
Than sway with them in theirs.
Worthy his youth and nobleness of birth.
Lending your kind commiseration.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Enter CLIFFORD
Now, good Metellus, go along by him:
I will unbolt to you.
I should, and thou couldst not. My queen and Eros
Till I be crown'd and that my sword be stain'd
Well, proceed.
Blind fear, that seeing reason leads, finds safer
That know love's grief by his complexion!
Makes my past miseries sports: you shall do well,
My lord of Gloucester hath convey'd him hence:
shall hear more by midnight.
you mock at an ancient tradition, begun upon an
thy hand so oft?
She dying, as it must so be maintain'd,
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
I am a feather for each wind that blows:
blasted woods,
She is young, and of a noble modest nature,
and then, you know,
Tush, women have been captivate ere now.
May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take
with obscured lights, which, at the very instant of
Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong,
Since I have my dukedom got
laboured for the poor gentleman to the extremest
In such a business give me leave to use
and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears: he
To do I know not what: but it sufficeth
Than misery itself would give, rewards
How likes she my discourse?
Most mighty liege, and my companion peers,
Ingross'd by swift impress, in Caesar's fleet
as bad a kind, Achilles: and now is the cur Ajax
Sweet king! the bishop hath a kindly gird.
Have never wing'd from view o' the nest, nor know not
Put on with holy prayers: and 'tis spoken,
you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
Forgetting thy great deeds, when neighbour states,
Let it go all.
O the gods!
Impossible be strange attempts to those
See'st thou this sweet sight?
And least proportion of humanity:
As, by our hands and this our present act,
The enemy increaseth every day,
[Aside]  I know not what impediment this complaint
Though you be therein curious, the least cause
The lips of those that breathe them in the air.
O gracious lady,
I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful.
That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks:
To blow on whom I please, for so fools have,
They did entreat me to acquaint her of it,
Pursue her, and for this intelligence
What noise is this?
Supply his life, or that which can command it.
'What is your parentage?'
A king of shreds and patches,--
Than if the earl were here, for men must think,
I be not found a talker.
Now, when thou wakest, with thine
Your wife, my lord, your true
And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
and says little, to fear judgment, to fight when I
Whose icy current and compulsive course
Sister, you'll go with us?
From the great compt: but love that comes too late,
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,
I'll follow this good man, and go with you,
Or Edward's soft and pitiful, like mine
My hunger's gone, but even before, I was
Where are my tears? rain, to lay this wind, or
That burn by day and night: and then I loved thee
Strains his young nerves and puts himself in posture
So you had need, for Orleans is besieged,
I would not spend another such a night,
Especially in pride.
O were the sum of these that I should pay
Enter CORIN
Which do command them. With him I sent the queen,
my errand,
So runs the world away.
death: her death itself, which could not be her
Enter PAROLLES
Maine, Blois, Poictiers, and Tours, are won away,
The several caskets to this noble prince.
let to know it is.
[Advancing]
By what means got, I leave to your own conscience--
What money, sir?
Exit RUGBY
Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
I writ to's holiness. Nay then, farewell!
Give me your arm:
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard
First, mighty sovereign, let me know your mind,
And I, my lord.
your father.
What is't you do?
a green-a box: do intend vat I speak? a green-a box.
Take all myself.
Nay, 'tis too true, therefore he shall be king.
He that retires I'll take him for a Volsce,
Horns within
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee: thy eyes
A man that ne'er saw in his life before.
I do, my lord.
I sent the king? Is there no way to cure this?
And witch the world with noble horsemanship.
O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath
It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place,
I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat,
As all think, for this business.
Sweet Lord Longaville, rein thy tongue.
If we have entrance, as I hope we shall,
Howbeit they would hold up this Salique law
And more than may be gather'd by thy shape.
Good even, good father.
Marry, that am I and my partner.
lent him visitation.
If she be false, O, then heaven mocks itself!
steeple, bells, and all.
You speak your fair pleasure, sweet queen. Fair
Where being apprehended, his false cunning,
Exeunt fairies
Thorough bush, thorough brier,
but my wife, master doctor, is for you altogether.
Yes, yes, the lines are very quaintly writ,
And so I would be here, but that I doubt
I crave their pardons:
Macduff, this noble passion,
satisfy my opinion, and partly for the satisfaction,
The best and truest,
Although you break it when your pleasure serves.
Which men full true shall find,
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
Do hear what we do?
The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever,
Here, my lord.
Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction:
Enter CLIFFORD and Soldiers
matter in the ditty, yet the note was very
controversy: as, for example, thou thyself art a
Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO
To our pavilion shall I lead you, sir.
Hath yielded up his body to the grave,
Enter a Herald with a proclamation, People following
here: pray you, is he married to Cleopatra?
And mine shall.
will be like a jack-an-apes also, to burn the
How things are perfected.
He hath.
What can from Italy annoy us, but
Hail, mortal!
Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter,
He chid Andromache and struck his armourer,
me, scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must
And strange it is,
Thy pains not used must by thyself be paid:
O, teach me how I should forget to think.
I should not live long after I saw Richmond.
Troilus will stand to the proof, if you'll
death: you know the course is common. If any thing
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven,
Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
Dido and her AEneas shall want troops,
My date of life out for his sweet life's loss.
Has Page any brains? hath he any eyes? hath he any
Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.
If we both stay, we both are sure to die.
Peace! what noise?
What signifies my deadly-standing eye,
Let Mars divide eternity in twain,
Is she as tall as me?
Sir, step you forth,
He thinks, with Jove in heaven, or somewhere else,
shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by
Why, what have you to do whither they bear it? You
But to fine issues, nor Nature never lends
with thy uncovered body this extremity of the skies.
Judge you, my Lord of Warwick, then, between us.
Exit with the body
O me, O me! My child, my only life,
I told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking,
May say 'This mercy we have show'd,' the Romans,
Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,
Suddenly taken, and hath sent post haste
Before the sun rose he was harness'd light,
But did you ever tell him she was false?
Then shall we be news-crammed.
than the staple of his argument. I abhor such
But she's best married that dies married young.
And preachers to us all, admonishing
God speed fair Helena! whither away?
For this fool gudgeon, this opinion.
SCENE III. London. Before the Tower.
That yet we sleep, we dream. Do not you think
Here's an overweening rogue!
More pleasant, pithy and effectual,
You may as well forbid the mountain pines
They must take it in sense that feel it.
For your best health and recreation.
And keep our faiths firm and inviolable.
Come, help to bear thy master,
As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
But Imogen is your own: do your best wills,
Ha, ha, ha!
A smaller boon than this I cannot beg
Our isle be made a nourish of salt tears,
Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more,
Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away,
To half a soul and to a notion crazed
In sooth, good friend, your father might have kept
he'll smile and take't for a great favour.
We, Hermia, like two artificial gods,
The glasses of my sight! a beggar's tongue
Out, loathed medicine! hated potion, hence!
O inglorious league!
Than one of these same metre ballad-mongers,
No, yonder 'tis,
What would your Grace have me to do in this?
As you are toss'd with. In faith,
What is the news i' the court?
smooth-tongue, Spanish-pouch,--
Nay, gentle madam, to him, comfort him.
For fly he could not, if he would have fled,
What, stand'st thou idle here? lend me thy sword:
Dispersed those vapours that offended us,
like an image and says nothing, and the other too
Some that will evermore peep through their eyes
For so much trash as may be grasped thus?
I am the governor of this place you lie before.
I pity you.
New matter still?
too. Run up, Sir John.
Shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
She's my good lady, and will conceive, I hope,
For my part, I'll not trouble thee with words.
Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion.
me in capite, and we charge and command that their
Throw in the frozen bosoms of our part
Because he loves her, he despiseth me,
Till we serve you, but when you have our roses,
Dost thou forget
the fool not dry: bid the dishonest man mend
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
Go, rascals, go, and fetch my supper in.
Knock him down there.
Well, think of marriage now, younger than you,
Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst,
Nor what ensues, but have a fog in them,
Be these the wretches that we play'd at dice for?
I have a thousand spirits in one breast,
But to those men that sought him sweet as summer.
How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears:
Fool-hardiness, not I.
That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you,
Come, I have heard that fearful commenting
You do the king my father too much wrong
Something particular: his coin, ships, legions,
But tell me, dost thou know my lady Silvia?
Exit
That we must stand and play the murderer in?
Fear not, my lord, but think
one.
Enter our gates, dispose of us and ours,
Let's see how it will give off.
Away with them to prison, and the day of combat
never recover.
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
For, by this ring, the doctor lay with me.
and what he hath scanted men in hair he hath given them in wit.
Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,
soon moody to be moved.
You will not own it.
himself aggrieved at this glove, that is all, but I
If not denounced against us, why should not we
This happy child, did I get any thing:
Who even but now did spurn me with his foot,
the Moor is defective in: now, for want of these
With what a majesty he bears himself,
Did he not, contrary to form of law,
Will we acquaint with all that we intend,
Or teach thy hasty spleen to do me shame,
Pray you, come in,
Do you know he promised me marriage?
This is an aspic's trail: and these fig-leaves
Else let my brother die,
Whate'er it bodes, henceforward will I bear
wife, come, Mistress Page. I pray you, pardon me,
Take from my mouth the wish of happy years:
From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame,
This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.
SCENE II. A bedchamber in the Lord's house.
In eye of Caesar's battle, from which place
There to dispose this treasure in mine arms,
Enter the DUCHESS aloft, HUME following
Some other give me thanks for kindnesses,
Would you were half so honest!
Sir, I hope
Now York and Lancaster are reconciled.
That in the natures of their lords rebel,
will you dismiss the people?
You swore to that, Biron, and to the rest.
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
O, je vous supplie, pour l'amour de Dieu, me
Yea, brother Richard, are you offended too?
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Which once,' quoth Forrest, 'almost changed my mind,
No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall
If he be slain, say 'I', or if not, no:
Back to the Duke of Gloucester, tell him so.
Disbursed I duly to his highness' soldiers,
He has it now, and by his looks methink
Or never more to view nor day nor light.
Therefore you speak unskilfully: or if your
by the figure, and such daubery as this is, beyond
yet could not equivocate to heaven: O, come
Wherefore? for my dinner: I have not dined to-day.
Where is my lady?
wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
Direct mine arms I may embrace his neck,
O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on
Give so much light that I may read by them.
Hold, hurt him not, for God's sake! he is mad.
That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire
And then to speak.
Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I
The care I had and have of subjects' good
Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover
The Second Knight passes over
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
Is not amiss when it is truly done,
without any.
What shall betide the Duke of Somerset?
That she is living,
That he hath used thee.
In one respect I'll thy assistant be,
keep so good a house. Many a time and often I ha'
His word upon you. Since I had my office,
I think thou art an ass.
Commend these waters to those baby eyes
Examine every married lineament,
SCENE VII. London. Smithfield.
From firm security.
Must not in haste abuse--if it be true,
Whereof the ewe not bites, and you whose pastime
His noble friends and fellows, whom to leave
hedge and follow you.
A woman lost among ye, laugh'd at, scorn'd?
That we may know the traitors and the truth!
Did break i' the rinsing.
Now, at the latest minute of the hour,
May it be gently heard: when we debate
In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
O, tell me, did you see Aaron the Moor?
Heavens forgive it!
At such a bay, by turn to serve our lust.
Write from us to him, post-post-haste dispatch.
SCENE I. Before the Tower.
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Re-enter OTHELLO
Would you had hit it too!
Look what I have.
Good Antony, your hand.
Under my battlements. Come, you spirits
Is it not like the king?
With sighs shot through, and biggest tears
an you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be looked to.
And here, to do you service, am become
What duke should that be comes so secretly? I hear
You know an enemy intends you harm,
Within this hour I was his bondman sir,
Wife to thy Edward, to thy slaughter'd son,
Allot thee for his lovely bed-fellow!
O, meaning you. I will go learn more of it.
Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder,
Of what you shall deliver. Yet, give me leave:
Good my mother, peace!
Sir, sir, impatience hath his privilege.
Come, knock and enter, and no sooner in,
No enigma, no riddle, no l'envoy, no salve in the
For every object that the one doth catch
When it hoars ere it be spent.
You are right courteous knights.
With all the applause and clamour of the host,
recovered?
With others whom the rigor of our state
Exit SPEED
And I did laugh sans intermission
Exit
By noting of the lady I have mark'd
SCENE II. Kimbolton.
Till he have cross'd the Severn. Happiness!
Till that the weary very means do ebb?
Go, sirs, take the basket again on your shoulders:
how oft, that ring was copper!
And like a sister am most loath to call
The angry spot doth glow on Caesar's brow,
As Dian's visage, is now begrimed and black
That he hath given away! Now, by my life,
though his affections are higher mounted than ours,
With thy embracements to my wife's allies,
Mark me now, now will I raise the waters. Talk you
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
Thy spacious and dilated parts: here's Nestor,
'Our Britain s harts die flying, not our men:
So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that:
Was fashion'd to much honour from his cradle.
mightst behold the great image of authority: a
Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn,
How blest am I
Ha! let me see her: out, alas! she's cold:
Did this companion with the saffron face
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
The best, with whom we may articulate,
before they are married, would she say?
They mock thee, Clifford: swear as thou wast wont.
To the field, to the field!
Thou pardon me my wrongs. But how should Prospero
I pray you, be content, 'tis but his humour:
Take them in.
I know not, madam: 'tis too bad, too bad.
Now, madam, summon up your dearest spirits:
Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow,
What subject can give sentence on his king?
And I have heard, you knights of Tyre
This casket threatens. Men that hazard all
Of your mere own: all these are portable,
Give me my robe, for I will go.
There is a queen, attended by a Moor,
Speak, Pucelle, and enchant him with thy words.
heels.' Well, the most courageous fiend bids me
Help! help, ho! help! O lady, speak again!
Exit
Be it his pleasure.
To do you service.
What being more known grows worse, to smother it.
But wherefore dost thou come? is't for my life?
Go with the princes, or stay here with us?
Frederick the great soldier who miscarried at sea?
To have the heir of the Lord Hungerford.
I bring consuming sorrow to thine age.
They advance to another post
Have you forgot all sense of place and duty?
And when he sleeps will she do what she list.
Better once than never, for never too late.
Upon my lady's missing, came to me
Were growing time once ripen'd to my will.
stars with oaths,
With all the honours on my brother: whereon,
I will send far and near, that all the kingdom
The Turk, that two and fifty kingdoms hath,
O Tranio, till I found it to be true,
cudgelled, they would melt me out of my fat drop by
No princely commendations to my king?
Peace, cousin Percy, you will make him mad.
Find mercy in the law, 'tis his: if none,
We with our stately presence glorify,
You bid me make it orderly and well,
Hath been enacted through your enmity,
This is mere madness:
to-morrow, I'll give him his payment: if ever he go
They make in Italy, the borders maritime
Here is a rural fellow
Yes, my lord, if it please your grace.
behavior vain, ridiculous, and thrasonical. He is
by'r lady, inclining to three score, and now I
dog's obeyed in office.
but ignorance, in which thou art more puzzled than
not?
Let's ha't, good soldier.
O, my old master! who hath bound him here?
Stay, Edward.
Re-enter FABIAN and VIOLA
poor king her father.
Go to, then, you come to me, and you say
Swears he will shoot no more but play with sparrows
man: thou shouldst neither want my means for thy
I will dismount, and by the waggon-wheel
Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee
Who hateth him and honours not his father,
No, believe me.
And therefore, lovely Tamora, queen of Goths,
Exeunt
I will not trouble thee, my child, farewell:
Because I would not tax the needy commons,
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
What meanest thou by that, Malvolio?
There is no force in the decrees of Venice.
Beseech you, sir, were you present at this relation?
And never of the Nevils' noble race.
Longs after for the garbage.
If we would have you.
What a pair of spectacles is here!
with you for's oath sake: marry, he hath better
By that same god, what god soe'er it be,
My liege! my lord! but now a king, now thus.
Let gentleness my strong enforcement be:
Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
Wreck'd as homeward he did come.
Why, this it is: my heart accords thereto,
And bids thee study on what fair demands
Kneeling
To set against me for your merriment:
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
Do de, de, de. Sessa! Come, march to wakes and
Look, York: I stain'd this napkin with the blood
I denied you not.
What, are there no posts dispatch'd for Ireland?
kings and princes, for by such was it acted.
Stay, Roman brethren! Gracious conqueror,
But this, which they produce from Pharamond,
And must she die for this? O, let her live,
Are at their beads, 'tis hard to draw them thence,
Marry, by these special marks: first, you have
of the prison, give him leave to escape hence, he
Know, then,
What says he to your daughter? have you spoke?
Master, here's the gold you sent me for. What, have
What says my sweet queen? My cousin will fall out
What incidency thou dost guess of harm
The other's peace: till then, blows, blood and death!
Are now each one the slaughter-man of twenty:
For Warwick bids you all farewell to meet in heaven.
In a neat's tongue dried and a maid not vendible.
Shall gild her bridal bed and make her rich
To die in ruffian battle? Even at this sight
Or wrath or craft may get him.
Wonder to wait on treason and on murder:
neighbour Verges: well, God's a good man, an two men
Come, shall we hear this music?
Shall I go fetch your night-gown?
Thou mad misleader of thy brain-sick son!
A wither'd hermit, five-score winters worn,
COUNTESS
Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray?
Madam, my lord your father would speak with you.
in this age his own tomb ere he dies, he shall live
That most are busied when they're most alone,
How well he's read, to reason against reading!
Mistress!
I would your grace would constrain me to tell.
And strong enough to issue out and fight:
she is sport for Jove.
What is my name? Whither am I going? Where do I
Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee.
Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates,
Ask me what question thou canst possible,
I am paid for't now.
That you in pity may dissolve to dew,
The horrible conceit of death and night,
To-night at Herne's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one,
Of this commission? I believe, not any.
Welcome, brave Hector, welcome, princes all.
'My father, not this youth.'
I then crave pardon of your majesty.
One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,
By me obey'd!
dead that was willing to be so: I shall do my
I do arrest you in his highness' name,
Go thou, and fill another room in hell.
SONG.
it is mended--my quarrel was not altogether slight.
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
Could he not speak 'em fair?
wench, as touching the hit it.
Wherefore they do it: they could be content
She's not well married that lives married long,
In memory of her when she is dead,
Must kiss their own feet.
Feste, the jester, my lord, a fool that the lady
I met a courier, one mine ancient friend,
Now mingled with their courages, will make known
it may be quickly.
Well, what then? what then?
I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard
very good friends. What a frosty-spirited rogue is
He speaks not like a man of God's making.
And this neglection of degree it is
Your precious self had then not cross'd the eyes
Yes, marry, did I	but I was fain to forswear it,
Perish the man whose mind is backward now!
Will the faithful offer take
Then, as the manner of our country is,
That churchman bears a bounteous mind indeed,
Stands with the snares of war to tangle thee:
It will be dangerous to go on: no further.
There was the weight that pull'd me down. O Cromwell,
From honourable sources.
Exact the penalty.
The French king's sister. Heaven will one day open
We must be brief when traitors brave the field.
And I will break with her and with her father,
we'll to Sutton Co'fil' tonight.
May through the centre creep and so displease
dreamest not of, the which for sport sake are
And that this body, consecrate to thee,
Good faith, a little one, not past a pint, as I am
I read it in the grammar long ago.
take note of it, and assure thyself, there is no
Is't possible the spells of France should juggle
Sir, the duke's pleasure is, that you keep Costard
More sins for this forgiveness prosper may.
This present enterprise set off his head,
I have another suit.
And never dare misfortune cross her foot,
I have assailed her with music, but she vouchsafes no notice.
Their talk at table, and their thanks at end,
Who shut their coward gates on atomies,
Counts it your weal he have his liberty.
When stubbornly he did repugn the truth
On the dank and dirty ground.
A villain that is hither come in spite,
Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave the foe
You took the moon at full, but now she's changed.
conversation, that he dares in this manner assay me?
SCENE I. Milan. An abbey.
Go, Lovel, with all speed to Doctor Shaw,
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
Make me not sighted like the basilisk:
As friendship wears at feasts, keep with Bohemia
In best appointment all our regiments.
Blush for pure shame to counterfeit our roses,
Whether till the next night she had rather stay,
You can do better yet, but this is meetly.
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
shot out in our latter times.
as thou hast done, and then say it was in fight!
Your heart has mind to.
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
Ay, sir, for three months.
And sends them weapons wrapped about with lines,
But, hark! what new alarum is this same?
Like to a harvest-man that's task'd to mow
SCENE IV. Before the palace.
If, till the expiration of your month,
Be it lawful that I invocate thy ghost,
You know me well, I am he.
By two of their most reverend senate, greet thee:
labour and effect one thing specially.
Your highness said even now, I made you a duke:
Those waters from me which I would have stopp'd,
By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make,
Till time and I think meet.
Who lets it hop a little from her hand,
Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue.
prison, and there's Madam Juliet.
Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at most
brave mind than a hard hand.
well, go to--there were no more comparison between
That with our small conjunction we should on,
All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes,
Nay, he's a thief too: have you not heard men say
Here, sir.
Unarm, Eros, the long day's task is done,
In his tongue.
How happy some o'er other some can be!
Why, this's a heavy chance 'twixt him and you,
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
gentleman: I remember his name.
Our strength as weak, our weakness past compare,
To gaze on Christian fools with varnish'd faces,
And to that end, sir, I will welcome you.
Your majesty's good thoughts away from me!
Go see this rumourer whipp'd. It cannot be
If from the field I shall return once more
Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.
That he is thus cut off. Please it your honours
Her presence would have interrupted much:
he cannot by the duello avoid it: but he has
Wise! why, no question but he was.
Be it so, then:
These miseries are more than may be borne.
Leave! an you take leave till to-morrow morning,--
Here was 'I thank you for your voices: thank you:
Is colder tidings, yet they must be told.
Or I should breathe it so into thy body,
Now, sister, let us hear your firm resolve.
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
Monsieur the challenger, the princesses call for you.
only receive this villanous wrong, but stand under
Self-loving,--
Plucking the entrails of an offering forth,
which is politic, nor the lady's, which is nice, nor
That we may hew his limbs, and on a pile
I have no exquisite reason for't, but I have reason
and knock down! throw them into Thames!
Not sure, though hoping, of this good success,
If it be confessed, it is not redress'd: is not that
Ever to get a boy.
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Well, happiness to their sheets! Come, lieutenant, I
From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother:
again. I go, sir, but I would not have you to think
Together with my practise, made familiar
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
Friar Lodowick to be a dishonest person?
What's she?
Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay.
his death is enrolled in the Capitol, his glory not
Till thou have audience.
Ah, ha, my lord, this prince is not an Edward!
Be yet my nephew: my brother hath a daughter,
Our hearts you see not, they are pitiful,
Against all sense you do importune her:
Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for
That by proscription and bills of outlawry,
SCENE II. KING JOHN'S palace.
Is this the balsam that the usuring senate
Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep,
SCENE II. Florence. The Widow's house.
Lest he that is the supreme King of kings
'Tis better as it is.
His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest,
I urged our old acquaintance, and the drops
womanhood and the witness of a good conscience,
the Park: I pray you, pardon me, I will hereafter
Re-enter MARIANA
Enter FLAMINIUS.
Who's there? whose noise is this that ones on murder?
O perjured woman! thou dost stone my heart,
Send her a story of thy noble acts,
Exeunt
And Westmoreland, that was engaged, did bear it,
I say it is the moon.
Wilt thou go?
of man's disposition is able to bear.
breakfast in the cheapest country under the cope,
Fear it not, sir: I would I were so sure
A giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise.
Thou hast not half that power to do me harm
Still sleep mock'd death: behold, and say 'tis well.
Deserve as full as fortunate a bed
I am not mad: I would to heaven I were!
Sound drums and trumpets, and to London all:
With bonds of death!
He hath a person and a smooth dispose
and therefore tell me, most fair Katharine, will you
purpose to marry, I will think nothing to any
And hither come in't: go, hence with diligence!
If she dares trust me with her little babe,
Open the gates, 'tis Gloucester that calls.
Mark'd ye his words? He would not take the crown,
By going to Achilles:
the ditch-dog, drinks the green mantle of the
When we are so unsecret to ourselves?
promise of his age, doing, in the figure of a lamb,
And scarce can spare them.
We give thee up our guiltless blood to drink.
The Jove of power make me most weak, most weak,
I am content: provide me soldiers, lords,
God gi' god-den. I pray, sir, can you read?
Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
I hope you will consider what is spoke
As jealous creatures are, it were enough
the lover's, which is all these: but it is a
honourable respect, and worn as a memorable trophy of
Juno and Ceres whisper, and send Iris on employment
Drag back our expedition: certain horse
His very air, that I should call you brother,
If your peevish chastity, which is not worth a
Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
Do, as a monster fly my presence thus.
See, here's to Jove, and this to Mercury,
me: for the life to come, I sleep out the thought
I' the posture of a whore.
Exit
Winnow the truth from falsehood. On, speak to him.
He be approved in practise culpable.
Do you not know I am a woman? when I think, I must
An Antony, that I might do you service
If not, Signior Gremio:
Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak:
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Talk with a man out at a window! A proper saying!
With daily prayers all to that effect.
How often have I told you 'twould be thus!
Hoping it was but an effect of humour,
Bishop of Winchester. But know, I come not
From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight.
Hereafter, in a better world than this,
To wail the dimming of our shining star,
O, hardness to dissemble!--
But meditating with two deep divines,
The tale of Tereus, here the leaf's turn'd down
lead this life long, I'll sew nether stocks and mend
My lord, you pass not here.
Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
Will plead like angels, trumpet-tongued, against
How France and Frenchmen might be kept in awe,
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
They would not mark me, or if they did mark,
Behold, the French amazed vouchsafe a parle,
We have been down together in my sleep,
[Aside to CLAUDIO]  You are a villain, I jest not:
Lies all within. Deliver me the key:
Gentlemen, God save you. If I may be bold,
And even that power which gave me first my oath
Amen, if you love her, for the lady is very well worthy.
Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
Where is Malvolio?
Exit VAUX
Caesar, I never stood on ceremonies,
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
I am not vexed more at any thing in the earth: a
And men ne'er spend their fury on a child.
His grandfather was Lionel Duke of Clarence,
Ready, when time shall prompt them, to make road.
I could be knighted.
Should fear to seize thee: therefore be double damn'd:
Silence awhile. Robin, take off this head.
Are they so? God bless them and make them his servants!
Not that Adam that kept the Paradise but that Adam
Where is thy power, then, to beat him back?
Reads
Not friended by by his wish, to your high person
Retiring from the siege of Orleans,
unhanged in England, and one of them is fat and
Of Paphlagonia, the Thracian king, Adallas,
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
An hour since: Cleomenes and Dion,
Who was the model of thy father's life.
Enter JOHN OF GAUNT sick, with the DUKE OF YORK, and c
Do not, in grant of all demands at large,
I cannot hate thee worser than I do,
she wished me: alone she was, and did communicate
No, faith, I'll not stay a jot longer.
CARDINAL
Why, as black as ink.
Of commendations sent from Valentine,
cap-a-pe, and one that will either push on or pluck
O, would thou wert as thou tofore hast been!
Exeunt
'Tis true, she rides me and I long for grass.
And hurl the name of husband in my face
Had I been seized by a hungry lion,
a foolish knight,'--
No, my lord, I'll fight.
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
O Lord, have mercy on me, woful man!
Thou art their soldier, and being bred in broils
Why the Grecians sacked Troy?
For purchasing but trouble, the thanks I give
I, where would you choose it?
How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
Fly o'er thy royal head, and shade thy person
And at that instant like a babe sprung up.
He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines
Now, Ajax, hold thine own!
And still enjoy thy regal dignity.
And what you do, do it unfeignedly.
That ride upon the violent speed of fire,
name for an ass.
Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
To wall thee from the liberty of flight,
Go you down that way towards the Capitol,
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
Which he will put on us, as pigeons feed their young.
DON
strike at me, that your arrow hath glanced.
anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.
I cannot name, 'tis nameless woe, I wot.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
The more we stay, the stronger grows our foe.
Why I your purse?
To punish me for what you make me do.
it will be seen to-morrow: my long sickness
If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not
Let him greet England with our sharp defiance.
restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been
will do it sir, in print. Gardon! Remuneration!
these robes are not gentlemen born: give me the
With plumed helm thy slayer begins threats,
Never to England shall he bear his life,
The quiet of my wounded conscience,
What, are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet?
Myself your loyal servant, or endure
My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
For through this laund anon the deer will come,
But speak, Egeus, is not this the day
And lay my arms before the legs of this sweet lass of France,
Why, this that I speak of.
'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord:
Dolabella!
Shall I hear from you anon?
[Within]  Fathom and half, fathom and half! Poor Tom!
Seek him, bid him come hither: tell him I have
This infant warrior, in his enterprises
Exit
The unstooping firmness of my upright soul:
Both have I spill'd, O would the deed were good!
The ship is in her trim, the merry wind
Desires access to you.
'If not, let me see thee a servant still.'
Re-enter URSULA
Good madam, stay awhile, I will be faithful.
That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
Thee never, nor thy traitorous haughty sons,
Come, lady, come, you have lost the heart of
Let me wipe it first, it smells of mortality.
further charge, that you swerve not from the
But lusty, young, and cheerly drawing breath.
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word,
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and the DUCHESS OF YORK
'pointed day.
I fear you not.
Good morrow to the sun. Hail, thou fair heaven!
By lack of stooping,--
To put on better ere he go to church.
lord of the council rated me the other day in the
During the time Edward the Third did reign.
Whose double bosoms seem to wear one heart,
For friendly counsel cuts off many foes.
That's a lascivious apprehension.
And that is Claudio: I know him by his bearing.
Our guider, come, to the Roman camp conduct us.
Burn hotter than my faith.
Our wish, which side should win: for either thou
And I, my lord, will bear him company.
My father had a mole upon his brow.
The brawns of Hercules: but his Jovial face
His filth within being cast, he would appear
Held current music too.
May I never
I think it be thine, indeed, for thou liest in't.
Hearken after their offence, my lord.
In her behalf that scorns your services.
But none can drive him from the envious plea
Thou bastard of my grandfather!
meaning, 'resolutely:' his meaning is good.
Natural rebellion, done i' the blaze of youth,
Come, come, thou reverend man of Rome,
A fit or two o' the face, but they are shrewd ones,
May't please your lordship, 'tis a word or two
The farthest limit of my embassy.
The one side must have bale.
Cannot conclude but by the yea and no
And last the hearty welcome.
brain more than he has beat my bones: I will buy
Go, signify as much, while here we march
I dreamt my lady came and found me dead--
Have uncontemn'd gone by him, or at least
My lord, here is a note of certain dues.
medicines to make me love him, I'll be hanged, it
gross as a mountain, open, palpable. Why, thou
You loving men of Angiers, Arthur's subjects,
As his own state and ours,--'tis to be chid
Nay, then--
Requires a fitter place.
All sworn and honourable:--they induced to steal it!
Did hold his eyes lock'd in her crystal looks.
Betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
And this is more, masters, than you can deny.
you deny your griefs to your friend.
But what a fool am I to chat with you,
Thy praises in his kingdom's great defence,
A deed of dreadful note.
Sir Robert might have eat his part in me
Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,
First, it was usual with him, every day
Contend against thy valour. Know thou first,
Let us be jocund: will you troll the catch
Who would not wish to be from wealth exempt,
Enter Ghost
that's in them. Is the senate possessed of this?
remain, but when you depart from me, sorrow abides
Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss,
And wheresoever we went, like Juno's swans,
When it appears to you where this begins,
No drop but as a coach doth carry thee,
The best news is, that we have safely found
Whose sudden sight hath thrall'd my wounded eye.
Pointing to KING LEAR
I may revolve and ruminate my grief.
For even the day before, she broke her brow:
But darkness and the gloomy shade of death
general course of action. 'Zounds, an I were now by
If they miscarry, we miscarry too.
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
Shall have more vices than it had before,
My dear son Ferdinand.
senses have but human conditions: his ceremonies
Marvellous sweet music!
Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
With all the learned council of the realm,
How now! back, friends! Shepherd, go off a little.
away, away! if you will measure your lubber's
But minister communication of
Should make desire vomit emptiness,
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws
See better, Lear, and let me still remain
The thoughts of others! Pray you, tell me this,
How farest thou, mirror of all martial men?
accuseth him, he cannot swear, but it cheques him,
His valour shown upon our crests to-day
But I am constant as the northern star,
The second name of men, obeys his points
To beat me out of Egypt, my messenger
She should not visit you.
Page, to know if it were my master's fortune to
Save thee, Curan.
Had not concluded all. He wakes, speak to him.
Re-enter JULIET, above
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
Re-enter AEMILIA, with ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse and DROMIO of Syracuse
Out--
But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft
How you do talk!
a pin, if the other three were in. Here comes one
Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
I thought so then:--I'll kill myself for grief:--
advantaged, and the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
I have but with a cursorary eye
Pardon, my gracious lord, for I submit
'Twould put me to my slipper: but I feel not
Withdraw with us: and let the trumpets sound
And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
O my friends,
maledictions against king and nobles, needless
How do you both? you are manifest house-keepers.
Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
No, if rightly taken, halter.
My lord the emperor, resolve me this:
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
I should think this a gull, but that the
Capitol, Brutus killed me.
so the third. Yonder they lie, the poor old man,
Exceed three days: in faith, he's penitent,
To second all his plot. I do assure you
I bid for you as I'd buy.
With gold on lasting pillars: In one voyage
So he says here.
not mad indeed? or do you but counterfeit?
many of the rich are damned: but, if I may have
Give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me
Why, you whoreson round man, what's the matter?
I cannot speak to her, yet she urged conference.
Plain and not honest is too harsh a style.
is three studied, ere ye'll thrice wink: and how
I am your debtor, claim it when 'tis due.
The palace full of tongues, of eyes, and ears:
As dear to me as are the ruddy drops
Enter GARDINER, Bishop of Winchester, a Page with a torch before him, met by LOVELL
Hasting to the court.
Withal I did infer your lineaments,
And to suppose her chaste! No, let me know,
Rescue those breathing lives to die in beds,
Quail to remember--Give me leave, I faint.
All of one nature, of one substance bred,
No, madam, we will bring you on your way.
Should he 'scape Hector fair: if he were foil'd,
Re-enter the Lords, Senators,  and c
And found him pight to do it, with curst speech
what thou wert, if Fortune thy foe were not, Nature
Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head?
Help, ho! murder! help!
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Now, by mine honour, which is yet mine own,
No point, with my knife.
We thank your grace.
Or, for my diamond, the chain you promised,
Enter JULIET
Of an ensuing evil, if it fall,
You may do it in an hour, sir.
You rogue, here's lime in this sack too: there is
Would I had been by, to have helped the old man!
O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
Has much disgraced me in't, I'm angry at him,
I will become as liberal as you,
Is it so, sir?
Enter Officers
That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
the feast,--
Where such as thou mayst find him.
Go to the gates of Bourdeaux, trumpeter:
Will seize the doctor too. How ended she?
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
Parts that become thee happily enough
Hither return all gilt with Frenchmen's blood,
Were you well served, you would be taught your duty.
The king will suffer but the little finger
The more my wrong, the more his spite appears:
And humming water must o'erwhelm thy corpse,
The matter?
I thank my beauty, I am fair that shoot,
great rich Capulet, and if you be not of the house
But, in the midst of this bright-shining day,
BISHOP
Why did he marry Fulvia, and not love her?
For count of this, the count's a fool, I know it,
That ever ear received: which in recounting
Thanks, my good lord chamberlain.
Why sigh you so profoundly? where's my lord? gone!
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud,
But sea-room, an the brine and cloudy billow kiss
Come, but one verse.
Parted with sugar breath: so sweet a bar
[Reads]  'I will waylay thee going home, where if it
Our business is not unknown to the senate, they have
When as the one is wounded with the bait,
Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath
I never sued to friend nor enemy,
And thus I clothe my naked villany
And foreign mart for implements of war,
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
If you will jest with me, know my aspect,
We have sworn, my lord, already.
If that the heavens do not their visible spirits
But, howsoever, strange and admirable.
That thou, vouchsafing here to visit me,
Exeunt all except SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Yet hath my night of life some memory,
And thrice again, to make up nine.
Ay,
He fell down in the market-place, and foamed at
Inherit at my house, hear all, all see,
So, fare you well.
Where are my slippers? Shall I have some water?
Faith, thou hast some crotchets in thy head. Now,
Will you hear't again?
O thou sweet king-killer, and dear divorce
Would you not have me honest?
Yes, my good lord, a pure unspotted heart,
Your face, my thane, is as a book where men
We have received your letters full of love,
one. I come before to tell you. If you know
SCENE II. The same.
What dost thou say?
Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
Worthy of arms! as welcome as to one
And what a prisoner.
Have scarce strength left to give them burial.
Is it so nominated in the bond?
Exit
Where great Aufidius lies: is he in Antium?
In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
That which my father loses, no less than all:
display to the night.
alone with him: if I do not gull him into a
Have the disease, and feel't not. How now, boy!
The ivy which had hid my princely trunk,
What store her heart is made on. Stop her there!
Be stamp'd upon it.
Thou speak'st as if I would deny my name.
The unyoked humour of your idleness:
He went hence but now,
Strong as a tower in hope, I cry amen.
approves him an intelligent party to the advantages
As if she had suborned some to swear
stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house, and we
abused, and Don John is the author of all, who is
Say to her, we have measured many miles
Sweet words, or hath more ministers than we
My fear hath catch'd your fondness: now I see
Speak less than thou knowest,
And interchanged love-tokens with my child:
Our doubts are traitors
And when they talk of him, they shake their heads
Thou fellow, a word:
break promise with him and make a fool of him.
You understand me?
SCENE I. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
Good night, mother.
If I thought that, I tell thee, homicide,
Lie down, and stray no farther: now all labour
See as thou wast wont to see:
There I have another bad match: a bankrupt, a
That thou adorest and hast in reverence,
For new-made honour doth forget men's names,
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  He has a cloud in 's face.
Your bounty, virtue, fair humility:
Save in the constant image of the creature
And you, my sovereign lady, with the rest,
Virtuous and holy, be thou conqueror!
In youth, when I did love, did love,
Therefore take heed how you impawn our person,
I do not speak of flight, of fear, of death,
See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.
For he will never follow any thing
Truly, lady, no.
yet your butterfly was a grub. This Marcius is grown
You would not make me such an argument.
That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.
Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
Lucius, save the child,
Whose want, and whose delay, is strew'd with sweets,
Can bide the beating of so strong a passion
That I would have spoke of:
But, sure, he is stark mad.
I find thee apt,
Death of thy soul! those linen cheeks of thine
manifest. For my brother, I think he holds you
But there is little reason in your grief,
And would not force the letter to my view!
An esperance so obstinately strong,
the duke's name, his wife, Baptista: you shall see
Dare no man answer in a case of truth?
For insurrection's arguing.
Flourish. Enter POMPEY and MENAS at one door,  with drum and trumpet: at another, OCTAVIUS CAESAR,  MARK ANTONY, LEPIDUS, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, MECAENAS, with Soldiers marching
That I may know the let, why gentle Peace
As one relying on your lordship's will
By so receiving a dishonour'd life
In earnest, shall I say?
And I will have you and that fault withal,
To old Baptista as a schoolmaster
If you did wear a beard upon your chin,
contented as in the king's company, his cause being
You see how simple and how fond I am.
wicked varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art
Drums afar off
And, all my powers, address your love and might
Else none at all in ought proves excellent.
I think him so because I think him so.
And then?
Are enter'd in the Roman territories,
'Las, what's the matter? what's the matter, husband?
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
He stifles her
All that are here: some come to take their ease,
Or to drown my clothes, and say I was stripped.
tongues else for's turn.
Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine,
To cross my friend in his intended drift
Make the gruel thick and slab:
To answer for his love, tell him from me
Let us seem humbler after it is done
loves Troilus,--
endings: no, I was not born under a rhyming planet,
Against such lewdsters and their lechery
And here again, that I may rest assured
God's mother deigned to appear to me
I will not be put out of countenance.
Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel
'Hic ibat,' as I told you before, 'Simois,' I am
As well they may upbraid me with my crown,
Sleek-headed men and such as sleep o' nights:
Health shall live free and sickness freely die.
Aside
It follows then the cat must stay at home:
That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together,
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
This sword shall prove he's honour's enemy.
So says the prince and my new-trothed lord.
Let us go see your son, I pray you: I long to talk
Who else would soar above the view of men
Exceeding wise, fair-spoken, and persuading:
I, not remembering how I cried out then,
What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?
Though this be all, do not so quickly go,
Have, as I do remember, done me wrong:
That he consents, if Warwick yield consent,
And are you grown so high in his esteem,
Yet best beseeming me to speak the truth.
Stay yet, Lord Salisbury, I'll go with thee,
Than tarry till they push us. Good Volumnius,
sitting, as I say, in a lower chair, sir, 'twas in
he be perjured, see you now, his reputation is as
For high feats done to the crown, neither allied
come again in his affairs, unless it be to report
O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison,
Though by the tenor of our strict edict,
Your tributary drops belong to woe,
Then heaven
Some say the lark makes sweet division,
The affliction of my mind amends, with which,
To villany and vengeance consecrate,
Saving in dialogue of compliment,
Leave me, friends.
peradventure, to make it the more gracious, I shall
Stay, ho! and let us hear Mark Antony.
If thy offences were upon record,
sad, and to travel for it too!
For now I stand as one upon a rock
She swooned almost at my pleasing tale,
How? what?
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
That to their everlasting residence,
stands well with her.
Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence!
The suit which you demand is gone and dead:
The Fool runs out from the hovel
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Hush, my gentle neighbours!
Go to the bay and disembark my coffers:
One Michael Cassio, a Florentine,
Had princes sit, like stars, about his throne,
Mistress Thersites!
firago. I had a pass with him, rapier, scabbard and
No? What needed, then, that terrible dispatch of
Re-enter MENENIUS, with BRUTUS and SICINIUS
Than can yourself yourself in twain divide:
You, madam, for you are more nobly born,
And venomous to thine eyes. My sometime general,
And, in the lawful name of marrying,
We'll mingle our bloods together in the earth,
SCENE III. Troy. Before Priam's palace.
With speedy help doth lend redress.'
Hath stopp'd the passage where thy words should enter.